---
title: Visions of the Almighty
author: Enrico J. Lévesque
date: 2022-12-26
category: part1
layout: post
published: true
---

***Likening the first chapter of the first book of Nephi***


## 1 Nephi 1:1

> I, NEPHI, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen many afflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having been highly favoured of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a record of my proceedings in my days.
{: style="text-align: left"}

My dad isn't a prophet like Nephi's dad, but he taught me many good things. One thing he taught me is to never be ashamed of who I am, regardless of what others may think. Another thing he taught me is the importance of fighting for life.

Like Nephi, I have also seen many afflictions in my life because of a handicap --- I was hit by a car when I was seven years old. Because of the accident, I went into a coma for several days and was paralyzed for several months. My right hip was dislocated and my nervous system was severely damaged. Every movement requires a lot of effort on my part, and I need to concentrate almost all the time to send the right messages to my limbs when moving and even to relax them.

For me, normal things in life become quickly great challenges. But that didn't stop me from serving a two-year mission, getting a bachelor's degree in computer science, a master's degree, marrying a wonderful girl, and raising a family. I have tried most of my life to serve others and work valiantly. I have been sustained by the Spirit of God.

My parents taught me to serve and work regardless of my condition. I am very grateful for that. I feel the same way as Nephi did about the goodness of God. The love of God has warmed my heart since my baptism, when I received the gift of the Holy Ghost. He has stayed with me since and accompanied me as a good friend throughout all my days. So, I also know of the goodness of God and his kindness and mercy. His mysteries are made known to me through the Holy Spirit and the prophets, so I make a record of my testimony, just as Nephi did. It has been an amazing experience to compare his testimony to mine.

## 1 Nephi 1:2

> Yea, I make a record in the language of my father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians. 
{: style="text-align: left"}

The entire Book of Mormon was written in the language of Nephi's father, which is later called Reformed Egyptian by Moroni, a Nephite prophet (see [Mormon 9:32](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/morm/9?lang=eng&id=32#p31)). This was not their original Hebrew language, but rather a different tongue spoken and passed down from one generation to the next among the Nephites (it may have also been spoken among the Jews). We know from this verse that it was spoken in Jerusalem at least by some, as Moroni wrote that it was the language of his father.

I, myself, do not write my book in the language of my father --- for he speaks French, as does our whole family (French is spoken in Quebec) --- but rather in the language of the Americans, who could be compared to the Egyptians of the time for us. The Americans are, in a sense, like the Egyptians were to the Jews in 600 B.C. The Jews conducted trade and commerce with the Egyptians at that time, as the rest of the known world would do. I suppose the language of the Egyptians became their business language, just as English has become the common tongue in the economic world today. Therefore, it is as if I am writing my record in the Egyptian tongue of our time. It is also a better investment, as it is likely that the whole world will continue speaking English for a long time.

I don't know about the future of French in Quebec, but I will certainly pass this language down to my children. It is strange to think that a language could disappear from the face of the earth, but that is exactly what happened to the Reformed Egyptian spoken by the Nephites. It disappeared with them a thousand years after their arrival in America. Who knows, French-speaking people in America may face the same fate someday. So, I may one day translate this book into French, or write another book in French. 

## 1 Nephi 1:3

> And I know that the record which I make is true; and I make it with mine own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge. 
{: style="text-align: left"}

Nephi's words give me confidence in the truth of what he wrote, and his honesty and the feelings I have while reading his account lead me to trust that he spoke truthfully about his experiences. I, like Nephi and the other authors of the Book of Mormon, declare that the book I am now writing is true. I promise the reader that I will always be truthful and as specific and honest as possible in the things I relate in this record. My desire is to bear good fruit, and I know the only way to do that is to give a pure testimony of the things the Almighty has done for me. The things you will read in this book are true. The Spirit of God will testify to your heart if I speak the truth, just as he does for the words of the prophets. I do not claim to be a prophet, but I do speak the truth. It is an unchangeable law that God will always help his children discern truth from error, as long as they live a righteous life.

## 1 Nephi 1:4
> ... and in that same year there came many prophets, prophesying unto the people that they must repent, or the great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.
{: style="text-align: left"}

Though it may sound pathetic, the Lord God has always done the same: he sends out many warnings before his fury comes down on the children of men.

This was around 600 B.C., and we know that the Babylonians eventually ravaged Jerusalem as foretold by the prophets. Lehi, the father of Nephi, was one of those prophets sent by God to warn the people of Jerusalem before the massacre came.

Today, over 50,000 personal representatives of the Lord Jesus Christ are sent all over the world to raise another voice of warning to the nations of the earth. I have been one of them, and I continue to warn my neighbors and my family against wickedness and iniquity. The Lord God is coming soon, and with him his indignation will burn the hearts of the wicked.

We, elders of Israel, are sent around the globe to gather his sheep in safety before the Second Coming of Christ. We are sent to ask the people everywhere to prepare and repent before the great day of the Lord comes, when he will destroy all wickedness, as God did for the people of Israel. While allowing them to be destroyed many times because of their wickedness, he will do the same to all the nations of the earth, as Isaiah and other prophets warned us. Our task is to gather whoever will come to the God of Israel in safety into Zion --- a very safe and blessed place that is, for now, wherever the followers of Christ are assembled in his true church.

We also know, because of Nephi's prophecies, that Zion will come out from the hearts of the children of men after the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. This is the great vision rooted in our hearts when we come to your door to ask you, people of all nations, at least to listen to the message we bring to you, and to test with prayer and earnestness if it may be true.

## 1 Nephi 1:5

> Wherefore it came to pass that my father, Lehi, as he went forth prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in behalf of his people. 
{: style="text-align: left"}

I believe this is one of the most beautiful scriptures. Lehi prayed with all his heart on behalf of his people. What a wonderful scene! I see myself in a similar way, pleading to God for the people of Montreal, as a new member of the Church of Jesus Christ, and again on my mission for the people of North Idaho and West Montana. I have prayed for my family and friends many times with tears in my eyes and an aching heart. I see Nephi also in the same manner ([2 Nephi 33:3](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/33?lang=eng&id=3#2)), as well as Alma ([Alma 31:24-26, 34-36](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/alma/31?lang=eng&id=24-26,34-36#p23)), Mormon ([Mormon 6:16-20](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/morm/6?lang=eng&id=16-20#p15); [Moroni 9:20-22](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/moro/9?lang=eng&id=20-22#p19)), the brother of Jared ([Ether 1:34-39](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/ether/1?lang=eng&id=34-39#p33)), Joseph Smith ([D&C 21:7-8](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/21?lang=eng&id=7-8#p6)), and of course Jesus on many occasions ([Matthew 6:9-13](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/matt/6?lang=eng&id=9-13#8); [John 17](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/john/17?lang=eng); [Luke 23:34](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/luke/23?lang=eng&id=34#p33); [3 Nephi 17](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/17?lang=eng&id=15-17#p14)).

What motivates such an outgoing desire of the heart? I believe it is true love. It gave Christ the strength to sustain an incomprehensible agony in Gethsemane. It gives a mother the courage to keep giving of herself, even when exhausted by the heat of the day.

I also pray for my people, especially for my own family, continually asking God to forgive them and myself, and to find a way to bring the precious gift of eternal life to their souls, if they dare to receive such a blessing. This is where all my hopes go, and it keeps me going. I continue to serve and live for that. I hope and pray and live to receive eternal life one day, not only for myself, but for my posterity, my extended family, all my ancestors, and the rest of the world, as many as will desire it. I deeply desire it, and it pushes me to keep writing and to continue serving in the priesthood of God.


## 1 Nephi 1:6

> And it came to pass as he prayed unto the Lord, there came a pillar of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and heard much; and because of the things which he saw and heard he did quake and tremble exceedingly. 
{: style="text-align: left"}

I had a similar experience with the fire of God in 1994, as I sat on a wood bench on a hill in the town of Matane, Canada. As I watched the sunset over the sea and contemplated the colors of the sky, I remembered another sunset I had seen earlier in 1992 on an island in the middle of the St. Lawrence Golf. I felt then deeply sad as the sun disappeared below the horizon, as if I was losing all hope of happiness. I had just lost all hope of love with a dear girlfriend and believed I had lost everything with the setting of the sun that evening. I sobbed with a broken heart while friends watched over me in silence.

However, as I saw the beautiful colored sky after the sun had disappeared, it was like a message to me that the sun and all the happiness it represented would still be there the next day. Even though it was out of sight, the sun was telling me that it was still there. This gave me hope and I trusted that there would be hapiness for me in the future. 

The memory of that emotional moment was what sparked everything. Prior to the vision I am about to tell, I had spent the night with some of those same friends, including the girlfriend I cherished so much. We stayed up all night in a friend's cabin, listening to music and having conversations. During the night, I was filled with a wonderful feeling of peace and love. My spirit felt so good and joyful. The music I heard that night still echoes within me with rays of happiness. It felt as if I understood everything about life and people. It was one of those rare moments in my life when my heart felt eternal.

We watched the glorious sun rise early that morning with the golden light over the fields. We had crepes together for breakfast, and then we went to bed. I kissed my dear friend on the forehead before she fell asleep, and then I went to bed thinking about the simplicity of that moment. I was happy to be her friend and loved her in that way, as a dear friend. I lay in bed, savoring and lingering on the joy I had. Needless to say, I didn't get any sleep that morning.

All of these memories came back to me later in the same day as I watched the sun disappear into the St. Lawrence River and the sky turn red and then purple. I was alone, thinking about all of these things when I was caught up in a vision.

I remembered many sunrises and sunsets. It seemed as if all the days between the sunset on the island and the one in Matane had passed by in an instant. That feeling of eternity I had experienced earlier returned to me again, but even more intensely. It was a powerful impression. I felt as if I was eternal again and was caught up in an even higher vision. Time no longer existed and neither did space. I was standing in spirit high above the planets and even above time. Perhaps this is what the prophets called the heavens. I saw two Men standing afar off, and while I was looking at them from afar, a personage appeared in front of me smiling radiantly. He seemed like a man like myself, but with infinite power and great holiness. As he smiled, I could perceive the purity of his thoughts and desires. For a very short moment, due to my pride, I looked down on him as I would a child, but the power of his majesty and the strength of his countenance prevented me from considering him as a child. I saw the glory of a god mixed with the meekness of a pure child. These two concepts were hard to reconcile in my mind. I was afraid to offend the being I had in front of me. I also knew he could see within my heart. This is when I started to feel ashamed of myself. Then I saw the fire of his glory like a flaming sword turning around him. I saw the strength and heat of this invisible fire coming from the holiness of his heart. I knew that I couldn't possibly stand in this fire and would be destroyed if I were to stand in his presence. So I was forced to bow and leave his presence.

The vision vanished. I was still sitting on the wood bench I mentioned earlier. Some kids came up the hill where I was and said something like, "What on earth did this man do to have such a troubled look on his face?" It surprised me to hear this because I considered the vision I just had as a glorious moment.

I took a little time to come back to my senses and went back to my mother's place. I was all happy until I arrived there. As soon as I passed through the door, while my mother was greeting me, I felt the same shame that I had felt in the celestial fire, and I began to shake excessively inside my body and soul. I told my mom I wasn't feeling too good and thought I might have the flu or something. My mom then said she wasn't feeling too good either. It was Easter and her sister was supposed to come and take us to her place, but we canceled the visit.

I continued to feel that great malaise for a few days. I didn't understand what it was. I tried to read the Bible to feel better, as I would do at home in Montreal with the Book of Mormon when I felt bad, but the words I read in the Bible kept reminding me of my sins, and I felt even worse than before.

I had more remorse of conscience than ever before in my life. I had lost all the joy I had previously experienced and was frustrated and angry about it. I wanted to repair the bad things I had done, but they were things I couldn't repair, especially one person I had deeply offended. She was long gone and there was no way to find her. I wrote a letter hoping to find a way to send it to her someday.

During the week that followed, I kept seeing a huge eye in the gray sky looking at me all the time whenever I was outside. I had lost all joy and felt ashamed. I started praying that I could just hear some beautiful music that could feed my soul again, like the music I heard on that night with my friends.

It was only a few days later, when I remembered the missionaries who came to visit me at my house and the feelings of holy love we shared together, that I began to feel better and find hope again. But that's another story that I will tell later.


## 1 Nephi 1:7

> And it came to pass that he returned to his own house at Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed, being overcome with the Spirit and the things which he had seen.
{: style="text-align: left"}

After what I considered to be a very marvelous vision, I was literally overcome with the Spirit and the things which I had seen. I did shake and tremble excessively for some days after. My mind could only focuse on the corruption within me. 

Moses said something very interesting right after he had met with God and had found himself without strength for a very long time: "Now, for this cause I know that man is nothing, which thing I never had supposed." ([Moses 1:10](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/moses/1?lang=eng&id=10#p9)) Similarly, I didn't think much of myself, and for the first time in my life, I began to feel the desire to repent of my wrongdoings. I began to believe that I had done wrong, feeling great remorse.

There is another passage in the Bible where a similar strange thing happens to Daniel after seeing the Lord of hosts: "Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength." ([Daniel 10:8](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/dan/10?lang=eng&id=8#p7)) 

I quote these verses to help understand what happens when one feels the righteousness of the Lord, and also to reassure myself of the truth of what I have seen and felt.

At the time of this event, I wasn't a member of God's church yet and I had no priesthood or special calling. I didn't have any gift from the Holy Ghost confirmed upon my head. I was just a young man without knowledge and hope.

A year prior to this event, in the summer of 1993, I had prayed once and fasted almost three days to see God. I wanted to see the same thing as the prophet Joseph Smith did, but at that time, I had no vision, even though I received a revelation regarding the purpose of life. I will tell this story later.

In fact, Joseph Smith's testimony also confirms this very particular lack of strength. He wrote, after telling of his first vision of God the Father and his Beloved Son: "When the light had departed, I had no strength; but soon recovering in some degree, I went home. And as I leaned up to the fireplace, mother enquired what the matter was." ([Joseph Smith History 1:20](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1?lang=eng&id=20#p19)) 

I asked my mother a few times if she remembered this particular Easter, and each time she said yes. She also felt this strange malaise and therefore cannot forget it. I believe that when the Spirit of God imparts truths to your soul, you can never forget them.

## 1 Nephi 1:8

> And being thus overcome with the Spirit, he was carried away in a vision, even that he saw the heavens open, and he thought he saw God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of angels in the attitude of singing and praising their God.
{: style="text-align: left"}

I often thought about the vision I had and the being I saw in it. I wondered if it was possible that I saw God, since I didn't consider myself a holy man. Years later, I prayed to ask the Lord whom I saw in that vision, and the Spirit whispered to me that he was a cherubim. Then I understood that the fire I felt around him was like a flaming sword guarding me from coming too close to God because of my impurities. I really felt that the natural part of me couldn't possibly stay there any longer.

There is something that has always caught my attention in the record of Nephi about his father's vision: he said that his father "thought he saw God". What does that mean? Did he see Him or not? For a long time, I also thought that I had seen God, not knowing if I really saw Him. But I saw Him in heaven, being caught up in the Spirit, even though I wasn't a fully righteous man, and not being a prophet or a priest. I was full of pride and I had made some real mistakes, so how could I have had such a vision? Nonetheless, I always believed that this vision was from God because it helped me feel a desire to repent.

I found something in the scriptures that helped me. Alma tells his son about a similar experience he had: "Yea, methought I saw, even as our father Lehi saw, God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of angels" ([Alma 36:22](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/alma/36?lang=eng&id=22#p21)). Alma also wasn't a righteous man when he had the vision he refers to. In fact, "he was going about to destroy the church of God" ([Mosiah 27:8-10](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/27?lang=eng&id=8-10#p7)). Knowing this helps me believe that a wicked man like I was at the time could have seen such things as I really did. Was I wicked or just ignorant? Well, a little of both. Alma's father was praying and fasting for him, so I also fasted and prayed, almost a year prior to that event, because I wanted to see God like the prophet Joseph Smith did. Not as a sign to believe in Him, but because I believed Joseph's vision was true and I wanted to meet my Father in heaven too.

Now I would like to focus on a common word used by both prophets, Lehi and Alma, in regards to their similar visions: they both *thought* they saw God. Why is that? Why did they say they thought they saw God? Let me suggest the same thing as Moses did: he explained that he saw God with his spiritual eyes, not his physical eyes. If it had been otherwise, he would have withered and died in God's presence. "But now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him." ([Moses 1:11](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/moses/1?lang=eng&id=11#p10))

I suspect that is also the reason the other witnesses, Lehi and Alma, said they thought they saw God. For the same reason, I always *thought* I have seen Him too, because I saw Him in a vision with my spiritual eyes, not my physical ones.

There seemed to have been different kinds of visions of God. Some have seen Him face to face as a man sees another (see [Moses 1:31](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/moses/1?lang=eng&id=31#p30); [Numbers 12:3-8](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/num/12?lang=eng&id=3-8#p2); [Genesis 32:30](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/gen/32?lang=eng&id=30#p29); [1 Kings 11:9](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/1-kgs/11?lang=eng&id=9#8); [Ether 3:13](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/ether/3?lang=eng&id=13#p12); [Abraham 3:11](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/abr/3?lang=eng&id=11#p10); [Joseph Smith---History 1:17](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/js-h/1?lang=eng&id=17#p16)). I don't make distinction here between the appearances of the Father or the Son ([John 14:6-9](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/john/14?lang=eng&id=6-9#p5)). Others, like Lehi, have seen God in a spiritual vision (see [Ezekiel 1:1](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/ezek/1?lang=eng&id=1); [Acts 7:55-56](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/nt/acts/7?lang=eng&id=55-56#p54); [Alma 19:13](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/alma/19?lang=eng&id=13#p12); [Alma 36:22](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/alma/36?lang=eng&id=22#21); [Doctrine and Covenants 76:11-12, 19-22](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/76?lang=eng&id=11-12,19-22#p10); [1 Nephi 11:1, 18-24](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/11?lang=eng&id=1,18-24)). I mention this because to see God in a vision and to receive a personal visit from Him or his Beloved Son are different events.

I also think I saw God and His Son in a vision, as well as a cherub right in front of me, despite my unworthiness, being carried away high above this earthly world. I give my testimony, along with the countless witnesses of His glory and holiness, that I know for sure that there is a God in heaven.


## 1 Nephi 1:9

> And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at noon-day.
{: style="text-align: left"}

I once had a dream while I was sitting in my apartment, waiting to go to a conference with the missionaries in the Montreal mission. At the time, I was a new member of the Church and was serving as a stake missionary, which means I served locally, and I was excited to attend the conference. Since I got up very early that morning, I fell asleep in my Lazy-Boy chair while waiting to leave.

In the dream, I saw a man with a smiling face surrounded by rays of light in a red sky. He was bald and wore gold glasses on the end of his nose. He had a crown of short, white hairs around his head and a beautiful countenance. I didn't know who he was until I went to get glasses at the store after my mission. When I tried on a pair of gold glasses, I was shocked to realize that the man in my dream could have been me. I didn't have a crown of white hairs yet, but it was strange to imagine myself at 50 years old and recognize the man in my dream.

Next, my attention in the dream went up to the sky and I saw a bright, white star with four points, descending from the sky. The light from the star was so pure and bright that it made everything else in the sky go dark. I knew it was my Lord and Savior. Though I couldn't see his body clearly, I could discern the form of a man inside the light. I was so attracted to the light that I couldn't look away, and I felt a strong desire to go to it. The love I felt was so desirable that it almost consumed me. However strange it may be, I also became afraid of losing myself in the love and had to turn my attention away from it. When I turned away, I felt sad because I had lost the opportunity to see the face of my Lord and be consumed by that love.

The dream continued with me climbing a hill with difficulty to attend a church meeting. I was running late and was being helped by some missionaries, though I can't remember if they were the ones who helped me convert to the gospel or if they were the missionaries assigned to my area at the time. We eventually made it to the top of the hill and arrived at the church building. In real life, our church building was situated on a hill.

In the next scene of the dream, I was apologizing to the Mission President and pleading with him to let me go on a mission, even though I was late. It was the last hour of the day and the sun had already set. When I woke up from the dream, I felt ashamed for turning away from the great star I saw in the dream. I wondered if I could have seen my Lord if I had looked longer and if I had missed a special message he had for me. I knew it was him in the light.

At the time, I couldn't understand the third part of the dream, but some years later, I pleaded with my bishop to let me go on a mission. I was 25 years old and would be too old to go on a mission within six months. My bishop wasn't sure if I could do it because of my handicap. I finally submitted my papers before I turned 26 and left for my mission two months after my birthday. This was really the last hour for me, just as it was in my dream. During my mission, I felt like I was able to turn myself fully to the Lord and serve him. I lost myself in his service and became a better version of myself, patterned after the image of the Savior of mankind.

## 1 Nephi 1:10

> And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.
{: style="text-align: left"}

While living in Idaho as a missionary, there was in our apartment a set of portraits on the wall of all the apostles and the First Presidency of the Church, 15 men in suits and ties smiling at us every day. They were arranged on the wall as they would be in the Church magazine, in order of seniority. Above them all was a painting of Jesus. One day, while my companion and I were sick in bed, I looked at those pictures on the wall and was amazed to notice that they all had the same light in their eyes. It seemed they had the same smile, but it was actually their eyes that looked the same. All of them, including the painting of Jesus, had this light. I looked at them for a long time, trying to figure out what it was in their eyes that I was noticing. Then I realized that it was the light of Christ in their souls, shining through their eyes.

I can't remember if it was the same day or some days later, but at some point I was looking at myself in the mirror, crossing my own eyes. That's when I noticed the same glow in my own eyes. It was a revelation to me. It confirmed that I was truly a personal representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. This light was not like the light in ordinary men --- we were special. The people we taught during my mission also told us there was something special about us, a subtle power beyond our human capacities. I suppose that's what I saw in the eyes of the prophets and apostles.

Even now, I can still see this brightness in my own eyes or the eyes of others at times. I think it is more brilliant than the luster of the stars.

## 1 Nephi 1:11

> And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him a book, and bade him that he should read.
{: style="text-align: left"}

In Lehi's vision, the Lord gave him a book that contained the doings of the Jews in the past and future. We learn that it contained many great and marvelous things accomplished by the God of Israel.

We also know of another book that contains many great and marvelous things accomplished by God and his people. It is interesting that this book, written by Lehi's descendants, is now distributed throughout the world. Missionaries of our church and its regular members share the Book of Mormon with people of many nations and languages, and we bid them that they should read, as the Lord did to Lehi.

Many people don't believe that a simple book could help fix all their problems. How could a book do such a marvelous thing? God has his mysterious ways. We go around the earth, inviting people to read the book, promising them that it can surely help. What is contained in the Book of Mormon? What makes it so special in our eyes and also in God's eyes? It contains a sure knowledge of the Living God, the Redeemer of mankind, and his judgments and great mercies towards his people. How did it help Lehi? How did it help me? Well, for Lehi, it changed the course of his life, and for me, it helped me to change my character, and it also changed the course of my life. It is not a small thing.


## 1 Nephi 1:12

> And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the Spirit of the Lord.
{: style="text-align: left"}

Many times when I read the Book of Mormon, I feel *filled with the Spirit of the Lord*. It was the Spirit that I felt while reading the book that converted me to the Savior of the world. Even today, despite facing hardships, the Spirit that I feel while reading the Book of Mormon gives me comfort and helps me to keep living with hope.

## 1 Nephi 1:13

> And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen thine abominations! Yea, and many things did my father read concerning Jerusalem --- that it should be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof; many should perish by the sword, and many should be carried away captive into Babylon.
{: style="text-align: left"}

When I first read this verse, I naturally thought of the world and its abominations. I live in the world among the Gentiles, not as much among those who have made sacred covenants with God. As a result, I see more of what is happening outside the kingdom of God than what is happening within it. When the people of the world follow false gods, it is often out of ignorance rather than choice. But Lehi wasn't grieving for Babylon at that time. He was sorrowing for the house of Jacob in Jerusalem, much like someone would do for the people of Salt Lake City.

The people in Jerusalem at that time were not very holy. They sought to kill the prophets (see [1 Nephi 1:4, 18-20](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/1?lang=eng&id=4,18-20#p3) and [2 Chronicles 36:11-16](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/2-chr/36?lang=eng&id=11-16#10)). Some of them, as Jeremiah wrote, even burned their own children to the false god Baal ([Jeremiah 19:5](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/jer/19?lang=eng&id=5#p4)). They were not a nation of priests like we are in the Church today, but they were the covenant people of God. Just a few years before Lehi's time, King Manasseh had defiled the holy house of the Lord with idols ([2 Chronicles 33:1-7](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/2-chr/33?lang=eng&id=1-7)). "So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the heathen..." ([2 Chronicles 33:9](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/2-chr/33?lang=eng&id=9#p8)).

If we try to apply this to our time, it would be much like if Utah were an independent country surrounded by heathen within the United States. The governor, who would be the king of Utah and ruler over the people of God, was building altars to false gods in each of the temples and making his people worship those idols and commit many other abominations. Then a few years later, the most powerful king of the heathen takes over the entire land with his armies and craftiness. He sets another king over Utah and gives him power over the saints that are left in the land. He gives him a new name, Zedekiah, and he does not do the will of the Lord either. God sends his messengers to him and, along with the false priests who are with him, he mocks the prophets and kills them. Then, after many other holy messengers are sent to the saints and his kings, the Lord God decrees to destroy the people of the land and carry them out of the holy land to "Babylon".	

We aren't as wicked in the Church as the Jews were at that time, but it makes me think of what happened to the prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum when they were killed by a mob. The remaining saints were forced to leave to the desert of the Rocky Mountains in safety to establish Zion. Thinking about the civil war that raged across the whole country a few years later really touches me deeply. The Saints were protected.

I would cry out like Lehi did and mourn all day long over the destruction of my people, if such abominations were happening in my time, and see with my own eyes my people being destroyed. I see such destruction happening in the news about other countries. I hear of some happening in my own country too, but the Church, with its priesthood, prophets, and saints of God, is heading towards Zion. Most of us see the House of the Lord as a most holy place and come to it to perform our worship. Isn't it wonderful and marvelous to live in such a time as this! I feel like the Israelites in Joshua's time, when the covenant people of God were striving with faith to establish a holy land.

## 1 Nephi 1:14

> An
d it came to pass that when my father had read and seen many great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto the Lord; such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty! Thy throne is high in the heavens, and thy power and goodness, and mercy are over all the inhabitants of the earth; and, because thou art merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who come unto thee that they shall perish! 
{: style="text-align: left"}

I truly believe Lehi's saying that God "will not suffer those who come unto him that they shall perish". The Lord God has been with me all my days, protecting and caring for my essential needs. He fills me with his Holy Spirit, which edifies me. He constantly inspires me to do good and to believe in the goodness of others. And the most wonderful thing of all is that he has done all this mostly through others.

"Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty!" It was through his servants, the missionaries, that the Good Lord led me to true love. It was through many saints, including prophets, that I have been taught and nourished by the good word of God. It is through my family and friends that I find support in overcoming my trials. Even through government facilities and health services, I can find help in recovering from illness and other emergencies. I have found helping hands and comforting smiles among the children of men, and it is through the Holy Ghost that I find the inspiration and motivation to keep running this race for eternal life.

You may ask: Where is the power of God in all that? Well! He inspires the children of men to do good. He is the Almighty and we can turn to him for all our troubles. *He will not suffer those who come unto him to perish.*

What did Lehi see that prompted him to exclaim in such a wonderful way? He saw his own people through times and seasons. He saw the coming of the Great Redeemer and the last dispensation of the fullness of time, the prophet Joseph Smith and the Elders with him converting thousands of the lost tribes of Israel. I suppose he saw our days with temples all over the earth and missionaries going about to teach the love of Christ and the Second Coming of our King and Ruler. He probably saw the end from the beginning and how the Lord has harvested his crops throughout history. These are just suppositions because the record doesn't say what he really saw and heard, but he surely saw all of this, because this seemed to be the recurring theme in the visions that the Lord gave to his prophets at all times. I imagine he saw even more that we are not yet aware of.

## 1 Nephi 1:15

> And after this manner was the language of my father in the praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole heart was filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea, which the Lord had shown unto him.
{: style="text-align: left"}

During my first year as a new member of the Church, I enrolled in the institute program for the youth. That year we studied the book of Doctrine and Covenants and the history of the Church. I remember feeling so blessed to be a part of this great kingdom. There was light and intelligence coming out of the institute manual as I was reading the revealed doctrine of the Lord and the history of the Latter-day Saints. I was introduced to a new way of thinking, in philosophy, knowledge, and life. Yes, my soul rejoiced and my heart was filled. I felt so privileged to have been given the opportunity to nourish my intelligence with these great words of truth and I considered it more valuable than the great treasures of the earth. I was amazed that all this wonderful knowledge was freely given. I wanted to tell everyone that it was all available for free, or almost free (the manual cost me three dollars). It was as if the heavens and all the mysteries of God were widely open to the view of the humble and simple. I felt really blessed, and even today, my heart rejoices at the thought that there is a book like the Doctrine and Covenants, containing so much of the counsels, admonitions, and teachings of our Lord: so many answers are given, so much wisdom, so many details and visions, and things yet to come. 

Around the same time, I read "The Restored Church" by William E. Berrett on the history of the Church and it also gave me much joy. I was in awe at all the doings of the Latter-day Saints. I learned the story of a great nation, a God-fearing people who accomplished wonderful things. While I was on my mission, I listened to some old tapes I found in our apartment telling the history of the latter-day prophets and apostles. I was so impressed by the miraculous accomplishments of the Twelve apostles in England in the beginning of the Church.

The humanitarian efforts our church does in the world today show me that the Lord's church cares for the children of men in all nations. When I think of the work of the living prophets and apostles, the temples, and all the righteous teachings that we receive freely every time we turn to God and his church, I wonder if it isn't a part of what Lehi saw that gave him so much joy... Anyway, it gives my own heart so many reasons to rejoice.

## 1 Nephi 1:16

> And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things which my father hath written, for he hath written many things which he saw in visions and in dreams...
{: style="text-align: left"}

I also write *many things which I saw in visions and in dreams.* The things I write, however, are not the words of a prophet for Israel; I am only a witness for my own circle of influence. The Jews rejected Lehi and his prophecies, so he turned to his family and had to leave Jerusalem with them. The Lord led him to a new land where he established a great people through his posterity. His children and descendants are almost the only ones who read his words, although we do read a little of them through Nephi's words.

Similarly, my own children may be the only ones to read my words, or maybe not, since you are probably not my child but are reading these words. I hope my children will accomplish marvelous things like the children of Lehi did and that they will write great words as well. I want to establish my posterity on a sure foundation: a foundation of faith, testimony, and truth. That is why I write *many things which I saw in visions and in dreams.*

## 1 Nephi 1:17

> But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days... wherefore, after I have abridged the record of my father then will I make an account of mine own life.
{: style="text-align: left"}

My father has asked me a few times to write the history of my life. He said he would be the first to read it. I may write such a book, telling the story of my life from my accident to my baptism in the Church of Jesus Christ, then from my baptism to my mission and from my mission until now. I might also write about my vision of the future. I will do it for him and for future generations. 

The book Nephi left for his posterity was a great gift. It has been preserved by the hand of the Lord, by the hands of his prophets and angels, and it is still read today. I hope to leave a great legacy behind me, like these witnesses of God did.

## 1 Nephi 1:18

> Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord had shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth among the people, and began to prophesy and to declare unto them concerning the things which he had both seen and heard.
{: style="text-align: left"}

*Therefore, I would that ye should know* also that after I received a testimony of God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and his Church, I began to testify of the Lord and his holy prophets. I have served in the Church since my baptism and I went on a mission, serving faithfully every day. *I would that ye should know* that I have never stopped believing in Christ and in the holy priesthood that was restored to the earth through holy messengers. I truly believe that angels came down from heaven to the prophet Joseph Smith. Every day on my mission, I went out with my companions to tell people about the true gospel of Jesus Christ. I have never stopped repenting of my sins since my baptism and I continue to teach others how to worship the true and living God through obedience to his commandments. I speak about God the Father, about Jesus Christ and his atonement, and about the power of the Holy Spirit. I teach the great plan of salvation contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and all the holy writings. Our message is true and my words are worthy of faith. I invite you to judge them and also to judge me. I will never stop believing in God and doing what he expects of me. My message will always be the same, similar to what King Benjamin said:

"Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend. And again, believe that ye must repent of your sins and forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in sincerity of heart that he would forgive you; and now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them." ([Mosiah 4:9-10](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/mosiah/4?lang=eng&id=9-10#8))

## 1 Nephi 1:19

> And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because of the things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of their wickedness and their abominations; and he testified that the things which he saw and heard, and also the things which he read in the book, manifested plainly of the coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world.
{: style="text-align: left"}

When I was in Montana as a missionary, we happened to talk to some kids about their way of life. We told them that doing drugs and alcohol, regardless of what they may think, was not a happy way of life and that it would eventually bring them, if it hadn't already, to misery and woe. All the kids in the trailer listened carefully to our speech while we were there with them, not knowing how to respond because I suppose they knew we were right; but when we were out in the yard, they started to yell at us and say things I didn't want to hear. They mocked us just like the Jews did with Lehi. Nevertheless, it was a great and happy testimony to give, manifesting "plainly of the coming of the Messiah, and also the redemption of the world".

The paradox is that the Jews in Lehi's time and the kids in the trailer didn't want to believe the prophecy when they heard it. They were suspicious. It's a contrasting message to tell them that they need to repent of their sins because the Messiah will come to redeem the world. Lehi told the Jews that the rest of the world would eventually be redeemed through the Messiah. For a holy and chosen people, as the Jews thought they were, the rest of the world were living in sin, not them! So, both affirmations would be hard to believe: that they need to repent and that the Messiah will redeem the world. Where is the need to repent then? No wonder they mocked Lehi for saying such nonsense. Now, what about the kids in the trailer? Well, I suppose the Lord will give them another chance to repent. They haven't been warned as much as the Jews were in Lehi's time, and they didn't even try to harm us.

About "the coming of the Messiah and the redemption of the world", many people mock us for believing such wonderful sayings. We are talking about the redemption of the world, a very joyful event at last, and yet our message is not often heard. It is true that we also warn about a painful day of judgment. However, the gospel finds a special place in some hearts that hope for a better life and a place in heaven. The result is that the true Church of Jesus Christ is flourishing in many nations around the world. This strengthens our belief that the world will be redeemed through the Messiah as prophesied, but this will only come to pass through obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ; that's why we tell everyone to repent.

## 1 Nephi 1:20

> And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with him; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had cast out, and stoned, and slain; and they also sought his life, that they might take it away...
{: style="text-align: left"}

As a missionary, I have never really felt threatened. However, there was one instance in Troy, Montana where a man pointed a pistol at my companion and me. He told us he wasn't interested in buying anything, and I responded that we weren't selling anything. He then insisted that we were selling God. I didn't argue with him any further and simply said, "Have a good day, sir." We then calmly left the situation. In the moment, I wasn't too worried because the man seemed drunk and I knew he was just trying to intimidate us. However, upon reflection, I realized that I should have left the man's property immediately and not said anything at all, given that he was drunk. Despite this incident, it didn't deter us from speaking to the people of Troy about our faith. I feel blessed to be able to share our faith freely.

That incident made me think about what would happen if I were to die while in the service of God. Personally, I believe that it would be the best way to die. But the question remains: Am I ready to die for God today? And more broadly, am I ready to live my entire life for God? These questions are actually one and the same: if I am ready to die for God, it is because I am living in a way that is pleasing to Him. I am striving to receive a favorable judgment from God, and therefore I try my best to obey all of His commandments. This is how I understand that I can fully give my life to the Lord. I believe that this is also what God expects from all those who aspire to receive eternal life.

> ... But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto you that the tender mercies of the Lord are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them mighty even unto the power of deliverance. 
{: style="text-align: left"}

I see my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints as a *power of deliverance* from the Lord. He has saved me from a life of selfishness, ignorance, and misery, and has instead blessed me with a life of service, faith, and understanding. He has given me the priesthood and has made me whole. He has filled me with light and peace, and has given me hope for better things. He has not left me alone, but has blessed me through the words and actions of His servants, and through dreams, visions, and divine inspirations. The Holy Spirit has always been with me, guiding my heart, mind, and soul. How could I doubt Him after all this? I can't. The Lord has His own mysterious ways, and His mercies extend to all those He has chosen. He chose me to be a part of His kingdom. Is it because of my faith or because of His tender mercies? Without a doubt, His mercies are greater than my faith.
