---
title: Visions of the Almighty
author: Enrico J. Lévesque
date: 2022-12-26
category: part_1
layout: post
---

***Likening the first chapter of the first book of Nephi***


## 1 Nephi 1:1

> I, NEPHI, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen many afflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having been highly favoured of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a record of my proceedings in my days.
{: style="text-align: left"}

My dad isn't a prophet as Nephi's dad but he taught me good things. One thing he taught me is to never be ashamed of who I am regardless of what others may think. Another thing he taught me is the importance to fight for life. 

Like Nephi, I also have seen many afflictions in my life because of a handicap---I was hit by a car at seven years old; so yes I had to fight to accomplish most anything. Because of that accident, I went in the coma for several days and was paralyzed for several months. My right hip got dislocated. My nervous system has been damaged severely and every movements take huge efforts on my part. I need to concentrate almost all the time to send the right messages to my members when moving and even to relax them. 

For me, normal things in life becomes rapidly great challenges. But it didn't stop me to serve a two year mission, to get a bachelor degree in computer science, and a master's degree, and to marry a wonderful girl and to raise a family. I tried most of my life to serve others and work valiantly. I have been sustained by the Spirit of God. 

My parents taught me to serve and work regardless of my condition. I am very grateful for that. I feel as Nephi did about the goodness of God. The love of God warms my heart since my baptism, when I received the gift of the Holy Ghost. He has stayed with me since and accompanied me as a good friend in all my days. So, I also know of the goodness of God and his kindness and mercy. His mysteries are made known to me through the Holy Spirit and the prophets\ldots\hspace{1pt} therefore I make a record of my testimony exactly as Nephi did. It has been an amazing experience to compare his testimony to mine. 


