---
title: Obedience Always Pays Off
author: Enrico J. Lévesque
date: 2023-01-01
category: part1
layout: post
published: true
---

***Likening [First Nephi chapter 2](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/2?lang=eng)***

## 1 Nephi 2:1

> For behold, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my father, yea, even in a dream, and said unto him: Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee, behold, they seek to take away thy life.

Lehi was a great example of complete submission to God, especially to his own family. Despite the consequences, he obeyed the Lord's command to go to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and prophecy to them about what he had seen in visions. As a result, he was blessed, although he almost lost his life in the process. In the following verses, the Lord gives Lehi even more commandments. In God's mind, blessings are often associated with directives on how to obtain those blessings. Whenever God speaks to a man, he always seems to give him something to do.

During my mission, I had a lot of rules and directives to follow. Every minute of the day and night, 7 days a week, for a full 24 months, I had to adhere to strict guidelines. Despite the challenges, it was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. This chapter of the Book of Mormon I studied during that time helped me reflect on and clarify any misunderstandings or misguided thoughts I had about commandments and directives. It was a valuable tool for personal growth.

## 1 Nephi 2:2

> And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in a dream, that he should take his family and depart into the wilderness.

While preparing for my mission in Montreal, Canada, I struggled to prepare myself and convince my leaders that I could serve full-time despite my handicap. One day, my bishop had a dream in which he saw me on a wheelchair going door to door with my companion pushing me. When we stopped in front of a door, I stood up, knocked, and taught before returning to the wheelchair. My bishop shared this dream with me as he gave me the papers to fill out and submit to the Church headquarters. Previously, I had told him that I was even willing to serve full-time at the temple in Toronto if my condition didn't allow me to go on a regular proselyting mission. However, after he told me the dream, it became clear to both of us that the Lord wanted me in the mission field. Trusting in my bishop's inspiration and in the belief that God was in charge of my life, I eventually went to the Spokane Washington Mission with full confidence.

I believed that my mission president was also inspired by God and I made an effort to follow his directives, hoping to please God. During my mission, I often did things with the intention of pleasing God rather than people, and as a result, many lives were blessed because of it, including my own.

There were times when I struggled to obey the requests and commands of my mission president and other mission leaders. In hindsight, it seems clear that these directives were right, but at the time, it wasn't always easy for me to follow them. For example, my zone leader asked me to read the Book of Mormon more frequently with the people I visited in order to improve my statistics on the number of lessons taught and people invited to church. My mission president also directed me to eat with members from 5-6 pm and then go out on appointments from 6:30-9:30 pm, with the goal of getting three appointments per evening. Additionally, my mission president asked us to spend three consecutive days in our apartment reading the Book of Mormon. These were all directives that were challenging for me to understand or follow at the time, but as I obeyed, they brought blessings to my life and the lives of others.

I provide more information about these situations in the following lines.

## 1 Nephi 2:3

> And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.

Nephi tells us that his father did what he did because "he was obedient unto the word of the Lord". Lehi was a true servant of the Lord and his example helped me when I was struggling with mission directives. I was serving in Libby, Montana and Bountiful, Idaho in the Sand Point Stake in the Rocky Mountains when I became the district leader of a small district of four missionaries. The scenery was beautiful, but we felt isolated and far from the other missionaries, as if we were in the middle of nowhere; "out there in the boonies", as a companion would say.

We were required to report on our work at the end of each week over the phone. We kept track of various metrics and had to report them to our immediate superior every Saturday night. We reported on the number of visits we made, the formal missionary discussions we had, and the non-members we met, among other things. These reports were affectionately known as the 'accounts'.

When I was transferred to Libby, the missionaries in the area were having three to four visits per week, which was low compared to the mission standard of thirty visits per week. We worked hard with my companions and the priesthood brethren in our units to increase the number of formal visits we made each week and to have a greater impact on the people we served.

I use the word 'formal' because not all of our visits were counted in our accounts. Only the visits where we presented the official discussions preparing people for membership the Church were counted. In addition, we also counted when we were able to read a full chapter of the Book of Mormon with a less active member, an active member, or a non-member. Member missionary visits, where we helped and encouraged members to share their beliefs with their friends and left them with specific things to do, were also acceptable too. 

A major source of frustration to me was that not all missionaries followed the same rules as to what to include in their reports; so some missionaries were having good reports while others did not, even if they were doing similar work. Personally, I did not like these reports because I felt they did not give an accurate portrayal of our work. I was also very strict about what could be counted and not counted, regardless of what my leaders thought. I told myself that I was working for the Lord and he knew what I was really doing.

Despite my strict attitude about my reports, after a few months we had reached around twelve or thirteen countable visits per week. I was proud of that, but it still wasn't enough for my zone leader. We discussed it over the phone. I explained that we were working hard and doing meaningful work, visiting people "out there in the boonies" every day. He asked me why it wasn't reflected in our reports. I responded bitterly, "Well, I can't count everything." I was angry because this was all volunteer work and I felt I had the right to do what I thought was best. I wasn't slacking on the job and I believed we were really helping those people by taking the time to address their concerns about their beliefs, religion, and God.

My zone leader then calmly suggested that my companion and I read a chapter of the Book of Mormon during informal visits so we could count them in our weekly reports. I was angry and struggled to stay calm. Reluctantly, I accepted because he was my leader and I wanted to respect him. It was hard for me to accept reprimands or directives that I felt I didn't need; it still is hard today, but I am getting better at it as time goes on.

## 1 Nephi 2:4

> And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the wilderness.

Lehi left his home in Jerusalem and all of his possessions to go into the wilderness, trusting in God's protection without knowing where he was going. He didn't question the Lord's guidance and simply left everything behind. He had a great vision and saw and felt many things about Jerusalem and its inhabitants, which may have helped to convince him to obey.

Serving a two-year mission for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is similar in that we leave behind everything, including our families, work, and friends. When I decided to go on a mission, my family thought I was foolish for leaving everything for the Church. They initially tried to discourage me from going. 

I felt overwhelmed when I listened to my zone leader in the mission field telling me to do more. I needed help understanding his perspective because I felt like I had already given everything I had. He took the time and made the effort to convince me to read a full chapter of the Book of Mormon with each person I visited, if possible. Initially, I was hesitant when he asked this of me, as it felt like a harsh command, although he was kind in his approach. Despite my reservations, I obediently followed his directive and it ended up blessing me and many other people as our teachings became more successful. 

As it turned out, submitting to this directive from my immediate leader was a blessing. I had started using my morning studies to liken the Book of Mormon to myself and apply the verses to the situations I was in, so it was easy for me to relate our readings to the situations of the people I was visiting. I would testify and share personal experiences and strong feelings related to what we were reading, and then encourage them to share their own thoughts. Because I was doing this exercise every morning and writing it down in a notebook, I had plenty of insights to fuel meaningful conversations about the messages of the Book of Mormon.

The Spirit of God blessed us many times with peace, light, and truth during these visits. The only challenge was fitting the reading of a whole chapter, along with insights and personal testimonies from everyone --- missionaries, regular members, and investigators --- within an hour-long visit, which was another rule of the mission that wasn't always followed, particularly by me; but that is a story for another time. While I did make progress in following this rule, I never fully managed to adhere to it.

## 1 Nephi 2:5

> And he came down by the borders near the shore of the Red Sea; and he traveled in the wilderness in the borders which are nearer the Red Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his family, which consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, who were Laman, Lemuel, and Sam.

What a great leader Lehi was! His whole family followed him into the wilderness, even though they may not have fully understood or believed in all the things he did. His wife and children followed him in complete submissiveness. Lehi must have shared with them about his visions, the burning fire he saw, the book he read, and his belief in the Lord and His judgments. While not all of his family members believed him (Laman and Lemuel did not), they still left behind their possessions to follow him, including the skeptics. Now that is amazing! What kind of power could do such a thing? I believe it is true love. When a father does everything in his power to bless and support his family, it can be strong enough to earn the respect and love of his wife and children. This is how I feel towards those in positions of authority over me who sincerely love and respect me, such as my mission president, zone leader, bishop, and the general authorities (even if these last ones may not know me personally). In my heart, I find the desire to follow those I know love me. It must have been the same for Lehi's family.

Our mission president and his assistants once organized an event that we later called the Charity Conference. After giving us the usual instructions, all 50 missionaries gathered in one room. Our president sat in a corner, took off his jacket and prepared to serve us by taking out a brush, rags, wax of various tints, and other materials to polish our shoes. The assistants then announced that we would have a testimony meeting on the theme of charity. We were invited to come to the front and share our experiences of charity, while our president polished our shoes one by one in the front right corner of the room. It was a very powerful spiritual meeting, and many of us had tears in our eyes. It was also slightly awkward to see our president kneeling on the floor in front of us, sweating as he worked on our shoes.

I don't remember much of what was said at that meeting, but I do remember what our president said at the end, after he had finished polishing the last pair of shoes. He said that he had polished the shoes of all the missionaries in the mission, more than 200 pairs in total, and that it was easy to do. He then said that if he could do more for us, he would. I had no doubt about it because he was always so mindful of us, doing his best to support and accompany us in various ways.

Polishing our shoes was a very unique and symbolic action that showed us just how much he cared for each one of us. He said that this was nothing compared to what Christ has done for us, and then he spoke about Christ's love and the even greater love of the Father. At that moment, I knew that my Heavenly Father was also ready to do anything for me. My mission president had a great love for us, and it helped me to follow his directives. In the same way, knowing that my Heavenly Father has an infinite love for me, demonstrated by the gift of His Only Begotten Son for all of us, helps me to follow His commandments.

At that moment, Christ's atonement became for me a symbol of His love and the love of Heavenly Father. His atonement demonstrates that He and our Heavenly Father will continue to love us from the bottom of eternity to its end (which has no end). Their actions in the past and what has been prophesied for future generations clearly show how much they love all the children of men. And since God is always the same, we can be confident that our faith in Him and in the gift of His Son is not in vain, that His will is truly to bless us and not to condemn us.

## 1 Nephi 2:6

> And it came to pass that when he had traveled three days in the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley by the side of a river of water.

Lehi and his family walked in the wilderness for three days before they stopped to rest and pitch their tents. They likely took breaks along the way, but this was the first time they set up camp in a more permanent manner. Lehi had been warned by the Lord that wicked men were seeking to kill him, so he fled into the wilderness with his family, without stopping for three days. The knowledge that his life was in danger motivated his family to follow him into the wilderness. Eventually, they arrived at a place where "he pitched his tent in a valley by the side of a river of water."

I would like to share a story about a special river located in the jungle west of Sook, British Columbia. In the summer of 1993, before I was baptized in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I went on a hike with four other people: three young men, a young woman, and an Indigenous guide. Our guide had invited us to participate in an "Indian" fast in the jungle, explaining that "the Indians" would do this to connect with the spirits and often had visions during these fasts. I had recently learned about the First Vision of Joseph Smith, and since my mother had had visions in the past and I believed her to be sincere and honest in her accounts of them, I was willing to accept the testimony of the prophet who claimed to have seen God. Even more, I hoped to have a similar vision of the Almighty myself. So, I set off into the jungle, looking for a spiritual adventure.

We hitchhiked from Victoria to our meeting point in Sook, then walked up a road and continued on a dirt path until we reached the side of a river. We saw a ruined stone building on the edge of a cliff next to the river, which was at its lowest level. We explored the area for a while, then followed our guide to our campsite. It was Friday afternoon. Our plan was to eat dinner together that evening and then fast until we had breakfast on Monday morning, a total of almost three days, just as "the Indians," we were told, were doing. But before we ate, each person had to find their own spot to meditate and retire for the duration of the fast. Our guide set up camp on the shore and began to make a fire to cook dinner for us. As we waited for dinner to be ready, we all left to explore the area. I walked along the river, searching for the perfect spot for my meditation.

We were in a small canyon. The river at the bottom was reduced to almost a stream in some places, but it was clear that it could become a powerful torrent during its season. I walked along the dry bed of the river and saw the solid rocks, worn down by the flow of the water over time. The rocks were shaped like solid waves. On my side of the river, I was able to walk and climb on the boulders, as the slope was not as steep as it was on the other side. I didn't walk for long before I found the perfect spot. It was a bed of small pebble rocks just beside the stream. The bed was emerging the boulder like a half bowl going into the river. I could prop one end of a long log on the pebbles and the other end on the cliff, then place a blue plastic tarp over the top to create a comfortable spot. The idea of being close to the water filled my heart with peace, and I even felt like I heard a voice telling me that this was the right place. 

For some strange reason, I decided to go and explore the other side of the river, despite the feeling that I should stay where I was. The spot I had found earlier wasn't far from our guide, but I thought I should find a better place in the woods, where a stronger man would go to. So, I set off into the jungle. The forest was dense, and it was difficult to navigate through the dark, going up and down hills and pushing my way through branches and rocks. I kept thinking about the first spot I had found, which was peaceful and quiet, right by the river. I also remembered the feeling that I had when I considered staying there. I think it was at this point that I heard a voice in my head telling me to go back to that spot and leave the jungle. Again, it could have been my own thoughts, but the words were clear and a strong feeling of fear came over me. I felt an urgent need to leave the jungle. However, I was lost. I couldn't tell which way to go to get back to the river. I couldn't even tell where I was. The dawn was coming quickly in the canyon.

I then heard our guide calling my name. He came to find me and helped me get back to the campsite, warning me about cougars and the quickly approaching night and explaining that it was very dangerous to get lost while walking in the jungle like that. I told him that I had gotten lost when he found me. When we arrived at the fire, the others were already there. I told the guide that I had found the perfect spot not far from the river and planned to camp there. He thought it was a good idea, maybe because he could easily keep an eye on me.

I thought about that story because of the river of water that Nephi mentioned in his writings, and because I have often wondered how Lehi and his family were able to leave everything behind after being warned by the Lord in a dream. This experience I just told was one of the times that I finally followed the directives given to me through whispers in my mind. It was the warning, the sense of urgency and the perspective of real danger that convinced me to obey and go to the right place, which ended up being a safe and comfortable campsite for me. In the same way, I think that the fear of danger also helped to convince Lehi's whole family to leave with him into the wilderness, even his rebellious sons Laman and Lemuel. They all left because of a dream that their visionary father had. The peace and the whisperings of the Spirit of God might have helped too. 


## 1 Nephi 2:7

> And it came to pass that he built an altar of stones, and made an offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto the Lord our God.

Lehi and his family faced great sacrifice as they fled for three days in the wilderness, leaving behind their riches, friends, siblings, and businesses in Jerusalem. Despite these challenges, the first thing Lehi did upon stopping was to build an altar of stones and "made an offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto the Lord our God." Lehi's actions demonstrate his nature. Like Lehi, I have also learned to appreciate the blessings that come from serving the Lord and giving back, even when it requires great sacrifice, like a mission in a foreign country. I strive to follow Lehi's example and continually thank the Lord for his many blessings in my own life.

Lehi is an admirable figure to me due to his leadership, obedience, and visionary nature. In fact, I decided to fast for three days in the jungle because I wanted to have a vision of my own. Our guide told me that the First Nation people often received visions during such fasts. After learning about Joseph Smith's First Vision, I felt motivated to seek a similar encounter with God. I hoped to see God's presence in my journey, so I joined the group and traveled to the jungle with this intention in mind.

After we ate dinner together on Friday evening, we all retired to our designated spots where we would be alone until Monday morning. I settled in for the night and slept well until the morning. When I woke up, I took a cold bath in a natural tub carved into the rock, which was fed by glacier water. Despite the cold, I thoroughly immersed myself in the tub, which was perfectly sized for the occasion. After bathing, I took a drink of water, just a small sip. Then, feeling chilled, I decided to climb up the smooth cliff to bask in the sun for a while. As I sat there playing my harmonica, I tried to clear my mind of all worries and thoughts, which was a rare occurrence for me. Prior to my baptism, I struggled to think about nothing and find peace in my mind, but that day in the sunshine by the river was an exception.

As I sat at the top of the canyon, I tried to clear my mind and concentrate on nothing, but I was struggling. My mind was restless and I didn't know how to stop it from thinking. Then, an idea came to me: I imagined the river flowing through my body, following its path through the rocks and obstacles. I saw the river as it flowed through the bottom of the canyon and tried to visualize it running through my back muscles and up to my neck and head. I let the flow of energy come up through my body, finding its way slowly. Even when the way was blocked and full of obstacles, the water was still flowing. I noticed that the river was powerful in its season, even though the one I saw before me at that time was small. As I let the energy flow through me, I began to feel at peace in my mind. I may have even started playing my harmonica at that point. Suddenly, I saw a butterfly in the air in front of me and it came to rest on my arm. This gave me hope and made me feel like a good person, as if the butterfly's presence was a sign of approval. The Spirit works in mysterious ways and this unexpected moment brought me hope. 

After finding some peace, I decided to take a walk along the steep bank of the river. I followed the path until I reached a place where the river became much wider and the canyon transformed into a small valley. The water below was clear and peaceful, and I felt exactly the same way. As I watched, a female deer and her fawn came to drink from the river. I didn't want to disturb them, so I sat and watched from a distance until they left to disappear into the forest on the opposite side of the valley. Nature is truly beautiful. I returned to my spot and took another drink of water, only one sip again, feeling that it wouldn't disrupt my fast. 

Although I hadn't yet had a vision, I had spent a full day filled with discovery and beauty. I retired to my rock bed, feeling thankful for the simple but meaningful day I had just experienced. Fasting helps one appreciate the small joys in life, and although I didn't build an altar of stones that day, I went to bed on one that had already been formed by the hand of God, feeling grateful in my heart for all that I had seen and experienced.

## 1 Nephi 2:8

> And it came to pass that he called the name of the river, Laman, and it emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the borders near the mouth thereof.

I considered naming the river in my story after myself because we were connected in a way. Both the river and I were trying to navigate through challenging obstacles and eventually finding peace in a tranquil valley. It was on the banks of that river that I discovered the purpose of life, which ultimately led me to commit to living my life according to God's commandments. I will tell more about it as we move on with the rest of the story.

Early on Sunday morning, our guide came to visit me and check on my condition. He brought me half a grapefruit and told me to eat it, and I ate. He informed me that the other two guys hadn't made it through the fast. They had returned to the main site the previous evening. Only the girl and I were still fasting at that point. I assured him that I was fine, but he was worried that I would become dehydrated. I told him that I was able to drink water from the river easily, but I didn't drink any water that day until the fast was over the next morning.

The afternoon was miserable. I was extremely hungry by then and my stomach was hurting. My bowels were also in pain. I felt like I was decomposing inside and the pain was intense. I was too weak to move much. It was raining, so I spent the entire day lying on my stone bed under my tarp. I was in a lot of distress physically and emotionally. My body was hurting so badly, but the greater pain was in my mind. Despite all the pain, I was determined to keep fasting until the end. I even wished I hadn't eaten that grapefruit because I was sure it was responsible for the great discomfort I was feeling. I had no desire to eat, no desire to move, and at one point, no desire to live. I was convinced that I could no longer see God because I had given in to temptation and eaten when the guide offered me the grapefruit.

Amid all the turmoil, I began to reflect on my life and who I really was. I may have prayed and asked God to reveal himself to me, but I can't remember exactly. However, I do recall seeing an image in my mind of my brother and I when we were young. Then I thought about my life, the car accident, the coma, my recovery, and coming back to life. I wondered about my mission in life because I was certain that I had a mission to do and that it was the reason I was still alive, but I didn't know what it was. So my prayer changed to asking to know what my purpose in life was and I directed my plea to the Lord in heaven.

The answer came almost instantly. As I turned my head towards the edge of the cliff facing the side of the river where I was lying, I saw a female deer and her fawn, and it brought me a sense of peace. A deep, pleasant feeling of joy washed over me as I saw them, and the Spirit of the Lord took hold of me. From that sweet feeling, I had the thought that I could find what would bring such happiness in my life, and I desired to be happy. I thought about having a house in Gaspésie, Canada, being with my future wife and children, and doing my best to make them happy and bring kindness and happiness to our neighbors. I saw how this could change the world, one influence at a time, from my circle of friends to the rest of the world. I started to understand what my mission in life was: to find happiness and bring it to others, and that it would be enough for me. All of this was inspired by the Spirit of peace and love that came over me, guiding my thoughts and giving me clear direction as I sought it. I had come to the river fasting to find God, and I found out what the purpose of my life was. I fell asleep in peace not long after this, until the next morning.

On Monday morning, our guide came to visit me with a jar of raw oatmeal in saltwater, telling me that I needed to stay lying down for a while and eat it slowly to prepare my stomach for the meal we were going to have. I was very weak and I desperately needed some food. This salty oatmeal tasted so good, believe me. He talked to me for a little bit and then left, telling me to stay there until I felt strong enough to walk back to the main campsite. After eating, we were going to share our testimonies.

I stayed where I was as instructed and ate most of my raw oatmeal before standing up and walking to the meeting place. It wasn't too far from where I had been fasting. Out of the four of us, only two of us made it to the end: the only girl in our group and I. As we ate breakfast, we had a testimony meeting around the fire and we each shared our experiences. I told them that I had come there wanting to see God in a vision, but instead I found out the purpose of life. I shared the story of how I discovered my mission and that we should all strive to find true happiness. Then our guide told us that he had attended many testimony gatherings like the one we were having. He said he had heard many stories from different people and he was confident that I was telling the truth. I didn't think I would be suspected of lying, but it was reassuring to have an older man confirm the validity of my spiritual experiment. After this, the other kids respected and thanked me for revealing the great purpose of life to them. I thought it was cool. I really believe that God inspired me with this great truth.

It must have been very special for Lehi and his family to be guided by God on their journey to a promised land. I understood clearly that my promised land was to return home and find happiness there. I had no doubt that I could find it, by the side of another great river, the St. Lawrence.

## 1 Nephi 2:9

> And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness!

When Lehi saw that the river emptied into the Red Sea, he thought of the fountain of all righteousness and pleaded with his son Laman to run into it, like a river continuously flowing in its course. 

The St. Lawrence River came in my mind when I asked for the purpose of my life. I saw myself with my wife and family in Gaspésie by the coast. By the time it reaches Gaspésie from the Great Lakes, the St. Lawrence becomes as large as a sea. It may not be quite as vast as the Red Sea, but it is still very wide when you stand at its side. Maybe the thought of Gaspésie was chosen by God to give me that sense of immensity and peace. That was the feeling I had in my heart at the time, given to me through the Spirit of God. That was my vision of happiness: immensity and peace, linked to my homeland and the great waters of the St. Lawrence.

A year later, after meeting with the missionaries, I understood that the key to living happily was to follow the path of righteousness. That was what motivated me to join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. To make that decision, I had to consider the benefits of living a religious life. At first, the thought of becoming a religious person was a little unpleasant to me because of my pride and vanity, but after reading the Book of Mormon, meditating, and having more experiences with the Spirit of God, I began to greatly desire the benefits of living God's commandments, having the joy of the Holy Spirit with me always and "be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain of all righteousness!"

## 1 Nephi 2:10

> And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord.


Being "firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord" is the only way to find lasting happiness and never-ending peace. To obtain these great treasures of life is the true desire of my heart. It has been since I began to feel the love of God. I desire more of His love and to always be in it. I did find out in time how to assure this lasting happiness. As I began to serve the Lord in His priesthood order, I could have more often and more intensely the love of God with me. It eventually led me to serve on this mission. Being on a mission as a personal representative of the Lord has its load of commandments, guidelines, and directives. The purpose of all this is to better serve the world in bringing people to Christ, but as it was with Lehi's family, it is not always easy to follow the Lord's directives.

I believe my mission president was inspired by God to direct the missionaries. We were fed almost every day by the members of the Church on our mission, and so we usually had a dinner appointment every evening at a member's house. This meeting could easily last for an hour and a half, or most likely two, and even two and a half hours sometimes. Since we would usually be invited once a month at each place --- at least it was in the units where I was serving --- we were very happy to see each other and we could find a lot to talk about. At some point, though, we got the word out from our mission president that we were to have dinner appointments from 5-6 pm, to leave most of the evening time for teaching families that needed to hear our message. Now this was a very hard thing to do. Let me explain.

First of all, on a mission for the Lord, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, obedience is a matter of faith. We aren't paid for the service we render. There are no worldly rewards for our obedience other than the love the saints and the people we serve give us --- and believe me, some people truly cherish the missionaries. It compensates for those that don't --- for there are those also. No one else then our companion is there to verify if we obey the directives or not. Well! There is God, and he is no small observer. He is the Great Rewarder of our obedience. So when a missionary obeys a directive given to him, he does it by faith that it comes as it would come from the Lord Himself, indirectly.

In this context, when you are doing bad things, you usually receive a correction from your conscience. But when you're doing nothing bad, such as eating with members of your faith at a convenient time, it is not easy to change your habits, and the habits of many others that are used to invite missionaries to dinner at such times for such duration. Also, those moments with the members were our heaven; we felt loved and cared for, it was just great! Cutting down on that was a hard thing to do.

A few weeks prior, I wrote a letter to my president to complain about this exact situation: that we were spending too much time eating with members on such precious time where we could teach more people when they are the most available. I wrote him that it was not easy to change this habit, since we had been doing it for so long. I was complaining about something good --- can you believe that? That's just how missionaries are: they are anxious to do the right thing, and sometimes we overdo it.

So the word was out and it was coming from the mission president himself. We had to do it. I was happy with that. I really thought it was a good idea. But the thing our president was asking was still a very hard thing to do. He wasn't just asking us to eat from 5-6 pm, but also to have three appointments per evening from 6:30-9:30 pm. It meant trying to keep our visits within an hour period, and even less than that, since we needed some time to travel between appointments. It was hard work. Many of us were having two brethren helping us, so that we could double our work --- each missionary pairing off with a brother of the priesthood. That would give us the possibility and the duty to have about six visits per night. It was a lot of coordination: calling everyone in advance (ideally two days in advance), making sure all were available, making arrangements for cancellations, trying to fill out the schedule so that we use our time most effectively. All this through faith that what we were asked to do was the thing the Lord would have us do.

We were asked to wake up at 6:30 am and go to bed at 10:30 pm every day for two years, to study every morning, clean out our apartment, be out from 9:30 am to 9:30 pm, and be happy and kind and filled with the Spirit of God, without complaining and without slacking on the job. Truly, if we were able to do it, it was because of our faith in our Master and the grace He so freely grants to His servants. This is what I call absolute faith. I happened to read this verse soon after the directive was out. We were living in a valley, in Libby, Montana, at the foot of the Cascades mountains. "O that thou mightest be like unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the commandments of the Lord!" Needless to say, it inspired me.

Well, we did it! My companion and I made the necessary arrangements to obey the Lord's directive. We did it together with the members of the Church. We explained the situation, telling the members we understood the trouble it would be for them to prepare dinner at such an early time, but that it was a request coming directly from our mission president. It helped a great deal to say that we weren't directly responsible for this drastic change and that it was our president demanding it. In the Church, the mission president is such an important figure. When he speaks to the missionaries, they pledge to obey him, like an army general, except that he doesn't force people to obedience; he convinces them. He is well respected by the local members and even loved and cherished by them. He speaks regularly at conferences and he meets individually with missionaries and members. Somehow almost everyone knows him. For these reasons, after giving directives to modify the ways we interact with each other --- members and missionaries --- everyone willingly made the changes and sacrifices necessary to comply. Well, everyone in my area at least, and I think most missionaries in my zone did it too. 

The results of this concerted effort to do better were that we taught more, helped more people, and baptized more in our zone that year than had ever been done in the past. In fact, we did double the number of converts, exactly as our prophet had asked us to do, with concerted efforts between members and missionaries. So the end result of our faithful obedience was that many more people did come unto the fountain of all righteousness.


## 1 Nephi 2:11

> Now this he spake because of the stiffneckedness of Laman and Lemuel; for behold they did murmur in many things against their father, because he was a visionary man, and had led them out of the land of Jerusalem, to leave the land of their inheritance, and their gold, and their silver, and their precious things, to perish in the wilderness. And this they said he had done because of the foolish imaginations of his heart. 


As a visionary man myself, I understand that not everyone around me may understand my actions. However, when the Spirit of God is with me, the world's wisdom seems foolish in comparison. The Lord has opened my eyes to the intelligence of the commandments of God, and through the guidance of the Holy Spirit, I have been blessed with visions, dreams, impressions, light and knowledge that have led me to be fully converted to the gospel of Christ. I am deeply grateful for this and feel it is my duty to give myself to God's service. This is why I serve in the Church of Jesus Christ, where the Eternal Father has blessed me with success, and at work also. Despite complaints from others, I try to remain steadfast in doing what is right in the eyes of God, knowing that the Lord will work for me and things will change for the better over time. I learned by experience to look for the hand of God with patience even when I was murmuring. 

During my mission, there were murmurs and complaints, including from myself. We often complained about the rules and guidelines of the mission, and even the old *Missionary Guide* we used to train ourselves was a source of frustration. The guide was designed to help us practice teaching situations through role-playing with one another, but we often made fun of the scenarios presented in it. Additionally, we were instructed to study it each morning with our companion, but not all missionaries followed this rule, arguing that the situations presented in it were unrealistic and would never happen in real life. While I couldn't deny the validity of these complaints, I made the choice to study it every morning as instructed, and doing so blessed me with greater faith in the Lord.

## 1 Nephi 2:12

> And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur against their father. And they did murmur because they knew not the dealings of that God who had created them.


As Nephi pointed out, Laman and Lemuel were murmuring "because they knew not the dealings of that God who had created them." Similarly, when we murmur against rules and guidelines, it is often because we don't fully understand the purposes and plans of God. I found myself becoming increasingly frustrated and annoyed when reporting my work to my mission leaders, as I felt we were doing our best, but not everything we were supposed to be doing, particularly in terms of reading the Book of Mormon with the people we were visiting. One day, I was particularly upset and even rude on the phone with my zone leader. However, he kindly reminded me that the Book of Mormon was designed by God and his prophets specifically for us, and suggested that I find ways to incorporate it more into my visits with the people, and read a full chapter each time, so I can count it in my report. I took his advice to heart, repented the following week, and made a greater effort to use the Book of Mormon during our visits. As a result, our reports improved and everyone was happier. Repentance and humility are truly key to success.

As a zone leader later in my mission, I reminded the other missionaries in my zone that they couldn't justly complain about the *Missionary Guide* unless they had actually used it in their training. I encouraged them to study it before criticizing it, and then they could explain why it didn't work for them after truly trying to apply the principles within it.

## 1 Nephi 2:13

> Neither did they believe that Jerusalem, that great city, could be destroyed according to the words of the prophets. And they were like unto the Jews who were at Jerusalem, who sought to take away the life of my father.

Laman and Lemuel did not believe the words of the prophets regarding the destruction of Jerusalem, due to a lack of faith in the Lord. Similarly, as a missionary, did I believe all the words of the prophets and all the rules of the mission? While I would say that I generally believed the words of the prophets, there were certain rules and guidelines that I struggled with understanding and accepting. One such rule was that of not being able to write to our converts and friends within the mission, but only during the time we were on our mission. Despite my struggles with this rule, I trusted in my mission president and believed that he was inspired by God to be our leader. I also trusted my zone leader when he encouraged me to use the Book of Mormon in a more effective way. But when I had trouble believing they were inspired by God, I would kneel down, repent, and pray. Through this process, my heart became stronger and my obedience improved.

Nephi told us that his brothers were similar to the prideful Jews of Jerusalem. Similarly, when we engage in gossip, disobedience, or seek praise from others, we are no different from the prideful people of the world. However, when our motivations are centered on Christ and his higher purposes, we are able to repent of our mistakes and obediently follow the guidelines and directives we receive. Our actions can mirror those of Nephi or Laman and Lemuel, depending on the attitude we adopt.

When we begin to murmur against one another, great dangers await us. It is crucial to be aware of the potential consequences of murmuring, such as a negative attitude and mindset which can affect our overall mood and well-being, which can create a toxic environment for others. It can also harm relationships and hinder spiritual growth and understanding. Murmuring is a sign of a lack of faith and trust in God, as it implies dissatisfaction with the circumstances and situations in our lives, making it hard to trust that God is in control and has a plan for us.

It is essential to address murmuring and complaining when it occurs, whether in ourselves or in others. We should strive to maintain a positive attitude and look for the good in every situation, even when it is challenging. Additionally, when we repent and seek forgiveness, God is always ready to forgive and help us overcome negative attitudes and mindsets.

## 1 Nephi 2:14

> And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in the valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled with the Spirit, until their frames did shake before him. And he did confound them, that they durst not utter against him; wherefore, they did as he commanded them.

I remember one day, especially, when I felt something like that when the mission president in Montreal spoke to us at a missionary conference. My whole body and soul were shaking and burning because of the power of the word of God. I felt the power of the Spirit of God in its severity and love. This love and fear motivate me to act. I love God and I fear him. I fear when he leaves me, and that fear has helped me so much, being a new member of the church and also being a missionary, to realize when I do something wrong. It helps me to repent and change my ways and to accomplish his work.

## 1 Nephi 2:15

> And my father dwelt in a tent.

Lehi left everything behind --- his house and his riches --- to follow the commandments of God. He was promised a wonderful land, and there he was, dwelling in a tent in the wilderness. Missionaries don't dwell in tents, thank God, but we travel from one place to another, never really established permanently anywhere. 

When I left Montreal to go to the United States for my mission, I had a nice position at the bank. Being handicapped and without a specific diploma, it was hard to find a good job in the middle of the '90s. My family didn't look favorably upon my decision to leave everything behind to serve voluntarily, at my own expense, for two years. None of them are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My mother was especially concerned about this. I explained to her that I believed I had found a good job with the help of the Savior, and I told her that I was confident the Lord would help me even more after serving him for two years. After some discussions, she finally agreed it was right and was at peace with me leaving. 

Returning home, I possessed nothing more than my clothes and a few boxes of personal belongings, but I was filled with great experiences and new capabilities. The Good Shepherd guided me to success throughout my life, as promised, my studies were blessed and the experiences I gained on my mission brought great advantages to my professional life. The sacrifice I made to serve during this mission has been beneficial in many ways, and I do not regret a single moment of it.

## 1 Nephi 2:16

> And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceedingly young, nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great desires to know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken by my father; wherefore, I did not rebel against him like unto my brothers.

At that point in his life, Nephi, being exceedingly young, turned to God in prayer to understand what was going on with his father. He was perplexed and doubtful, but was comforted by a visitation from God. His heart was made soft and he believed all of his father's words. This is what I had to do myself at one point on my mission because I felt tired of all the rules. My heart was becoming harder and harder and I wrestled in my soul to stay humble and submissive. I cried to God for help and asked to understand his will because I didn't understand why I was not allowed to write to my friends, converts, and members in the mission. I needed to pray. After being visited by the Lord, Nephi said he didn't rebel against his father like his brothers. I did not want to rebel against my mission president because I believed it would be like rebelling against God eventually. I am so thankful for Nephi's example and for him taking the time to explain his feelings. I knew what to do to feel better and stay positive. It was a great lesson for me.

## 1 Nephi 2:17 

> And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him the things which the Lord had manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit. And it came to pass that he believed in my words.

After my baptism in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I traveled from Montreal to Matane to visit my mother. Being Catholic, she was worried about my decision to join a different sect. To ease her concerns, I read with her a passage from the Book of Mormon about Christ's appearance to Nephi's descendants in America (see [3 Nephi 11](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/3-ne/11?lang=eng)). As we read, we both felt the love of God strongly and she came to believe that it was a good church and that I was not being led astray. She felt confident that I was in good hands. I was able to share my personal experiences with her often, and she would listen. Later, she even studied with the missionaries in Matane, but she never joined the church.

## 1 Nephi 2:18 

> But, behold, Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my words; and being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts I cried unto the Lord for them.

I shared my new faith with my family and friends after my baptism; they listened to me, but none of them decided to join. They were happy for me, but it wasn't for them. I wish my family could share this faith with me. Nephi grieved over Laman and Lemuel's disbelief. I hope one day my family will accept the gospel of Christ. I continue to pray for my family to understand and embrace this faith, because I know he lives and cares for us very much. I often feel like Abraham must have felt, as he was also the only member of his family who believed and followed the Living God. He chose a path of faith that he knew would lead him to righteousness (see [Abraham 1:1-2](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/pgp/abr/1?lang=eng&id=1-2#1)). I made the choice to follow the same covenant path as Abraham did. 

Remember when I talked earlier about the Missionary Guide and us missionaries complaining about it? Well, after a little more than a year and a half of studying it almost every day, I did a prayer to God about the situation. I started to explain to the Lord that I couldn't blame my companions for not liking the guide and having a hard time studying it seriously. I told him that the lessons in the guide were telling us to teach by the Spirit, but that I felt the techniques used in the book to convey this message were not effective. They were just telling us to do it, without showing us how. I told him that it was hard to learn a new skill without having an example to learn from. Not everyone could learn things just by reading. So it's no wonder why they would complain. The Spirit spoke to me then and said: "Watch my servants at work. Watch me." And I understood that he would do something about it through his servants, the prophet and apostles. And I let it go.

A couple of years later, being a student at the university, a new missionary guide was introduced to the missionaries and members all over the world. It was titled *Preaching My Gospel*. This guide changed the way we approached and prepared for missionary work. Instead of telling us what to teach, it guided us to study with the Spirit of God and then we were invited to practice and teach the principles we learned about the gospel of Jesus Christ. This method is harder, but it is also more effective. *Preaching My Gospel* is still in use today, twenty years later. This experience gave me another great testimony of the Almighty God directing the affairs of His living church. I suspect that when I prayed, the new guide was already being discussed among the leaders of the church.

## 1 Nephi 2:19 

> And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Blessed art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith, for thou hast sought me diligently, with lowliness of heart.

I developed a desire to seek the Lord after hearing the testimony of a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who had a vision of the Lord. He also told me about the First Vision of the prophet Joseph Smith. These stories made me reflect also on my mother's own visions. I believe that is why I was led to join the church, as I was actively searching for God. Finding God requires faith and a willingness to let go of our own desires and put in the effort to seek him. The key to finding him is to do so with humility, as the Lord instructed Nephi. By approaching our search with a humble heart, we can open ourselves to listening to and accepting God's directives that he gives with love, kindness, and mercy.

In the summer of 1993, while on a trip to the West Coast of Canada with friends, I learned about Joseph Smith's vision of God and began to open my mind to the idea that Jesus Christ was actually alive. I became deeply interested in meeting the Lord. One day, while staying in a stressful home in Victoria City, British Colombia, a man with a beard and sandals on his feet entered the living room wearing modern clothes. I felt a great sense of peace fill the room as he entered. This was one of my first experiences with peace. This occurred during the same summer that I fasted in the jungle to find God. As the man left, I wondered if he could be Jesus Christ because of the peace I felt. I wanted to find out, so I decided to try to catch up with him and ask him his name. I used a small bike I had traded for a guitar to try to reach him, but as I pedaled, I became exhausted and discouraged and a heaviness came over me. It was a tiny bike and as the man was already far away gone, I wondered if I could make it. As everything became dark, I could concentrate only on pedaling so I could reach the man. I heard a voice in my head asking me what I wanted and I replied that all I wanted was to write. The voice told me: "Come to me first, and then you could write all the things you want." I agreed and found myself next to the man I had been trying to catch up with. After catching my breath, I asked him his name and he told me it was Jerome. I asked him where he was going, not knowing what else to say. 

There was a festival going on in town. The man invited me to join him and some friends at a popular square. As I knew exactly where it was, I left him and headed to town. I left my bike somewhere and walked downtown, feeling a sense of peace and contentment. I felt as if I was walking on clouds, my mind contemplating all around, and I had the feeling that I could understand anything. I observed the people in town walking on the streets and looking at the items on display in store windows, and I couldn't understand why I seemed to be the only one feeling this way. As I came closer to some people, they would rush to the store displays, fixated on things that seemed to me to be of little importance. It felt as if the people were trapped in their desires, unable to experience what I was feeling. I was truly happy, filled with joy, peace, and understanding. This experience made me believe that heaven is here on Earth, if we allow it to be. It left a lasting impression on me, and I have been searching for that feeling of happiness and the love of God again, which is why I desired to join The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

This story may seem unusual, but it is true. After humbling myself, I was open to accepting any guidance from God. It required even more humility to accept baptism and be willing to serve in the church. Even today, after many prayers and much contemplation, I am still committed to submitting my will to God's will with humility. I feel just as I did after my baptism, ready to let God's will prevail in my life.

## 1 Nephi 2:20 

> And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper, and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a land which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands.

## 1 Nephi 2:21 

> And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee, they shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.

## 1 Nephi 2:22 

> And inasmuch as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shalt be made a ruler and a teacher over thy brethren.

## 1 Nephi 2:23 

> For behold, in that day that they shall rebel against me, I will curse them even with a sore curse, and they shall have no power over thy seed except they shall rebel against me also.

## 1 Nephi 2:24 

> And if it so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in the ways of remembrance.



