---
title: Led by the Spirit
author: Enrico J. Lévesque
date: 2023-04-01
category: part1
layout: post
published: false
---

***Likening [chapter 4](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/bofm/1-ne/4?lang=eng) of the first book of Nephi***



## 1 Nephi 4:1

> And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying: Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?

As Nephi did before, he once again encouraged his brothers to follow the Lord and believe that anything is possible for the Almighty God, who is mightier than any one. Personally, I have seen His powerful hand bless me, and also many others.

I have been guided by His Spirit, just like Nephi did, and have been able to navigate through difficult times and misfortunes with the assurance that God is always there to help. I have experienced some mighty miracles in my life, which might not always be what you would expect. However, His interventions have been evident to me many times, even though they might be invisible to others. There were even moments when people around me noticed that there was an invisible force working for me.

Due to the undeniable presence of God in my life and the profound impact of His wisdom and guidance, I could no longer ignore His existence. It was through experiencing His mighty hand that I truly started to believe in God, fulfilling my heartfelt desire to know Him. His divine intervention has rescued me from spiritual, psychological, and physical perils.

## 1 Nephi 4:2

> Therefore let us go up; let us be strong like unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and thither...

After a month of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, I realized that I had changed more than I ever thought I would be able to in my life. My mind had changed, and my ability to interact with people had improved. My hopes were greater, and my happiness was more steadfast. I considered life as a great adventure, full of opportunities to seize. I was able to express myself with much more confidence, and I felt the love of God continually. I remember thinking it was a miracle in my case because of so many unsuccessful attempts to be more agreeable to others. Prior to my baptism, I had become very cynical, and I didn't think I was able to change my attitude about so many things. I had already become a better man, and this happened within just a month. Even so, my family started to notice it too, and my friends didn't recognize me. They were worried, though, that I had been brainwashed. I would tell them that it was perhaps a very necessary cleansing.

In February 1999, after serving as a missionary for nine months, during a worldwide satellite broadcast, our beloved prophet, Gordon B. Hinckley, made the following statement:

"Last year there were approximately 300,000 convert baptisms throughout the Church. This is tremendously significant. This is the equivalent of 120 new stakes of 2,500 members each. Think of that: 120 new stakes in a single year! It is wonderful. But it is not enough. I am not being unrealistic when I say that with concerted effort, with recognition of the duty which falls upon each of us as members of the Church, and with sincere prayer to the Lord for help, we could double that number."

This powerful statement left a deep impression on my mind. I couldn't stop thinking about it, and I constantly questioned how I could become a better missionary.

By early July of the same year, after having remained in Libby, Montana for some time, my companion and I received news that neither of us was being transferred. In our mission, new missionaries arrived every four weeks and needed to be paired with more experienced companions for training. Existing companionships were also regularly rearranged, and missionaries were shifted to different areas throughout the mission. Each transfer day was a mix of anticipation and apprehension. We had been together for four months, my companion and I, and I was anticipating a transfer. However, since it didn't happen, I began to contemplate how I could improve my efforts. The counsel to make "concerted efforts" remained on my mind. It became clear to me that I needed to learn how to work more effectively with local members and guide them in doing missionary work.

Other missionaries in my district had recently proposed using the announcement of the new Spokane, Washington temple as an opportunity to encourage members to invite their friends to attend the open house scheduled before its dedication in late August. We urged the members to invite their friends and bring them to Spokane, a three-hour drive away, to visit the new temple. We prepared the invitations, discussed the plan frequently, made some goals, and invited both members and non-members to attend the open house.

Something remarkable occurred during this time: we discovered the power of "concerted efforts" as both missionaries and local members worked together. The Spirit of God was with us, and we all experienced a profound sense of joy. After the open house, we continued to think about other ways to invite members to participate in the missionary effort, encouraging members to pray and invite their friends to hear the Gospel.

My companion was eventually transferred out of the area. I remained and became a zone leader. I exhorted all the missionaries in my zone to set goals for working with members and finding people to teach. We set a goal to double our baptisms that year and prayed for guidance from the Spirit of God. We shared our vision with the local church leaders, supported with the statement made by our prophet, and started working more closely.

Towards the end of the year, during a meeting with all the missionaries in my zone, we collectively reviewed the progress of the individuals we were teaching. We discussed those who had the potential to be baptized by the year's end. It became evident that the Elders in Bonners Ferry, Idaho, were lacking sufficient individuals seriously interested in the Gospel to reach our target. I advised them to pray for divine guidance in finding a family of five people, insisting that this was essential to double their baptisms. In time, they were able to locate and baptize that family before the year concluded.

I emphasized the importance of the numbers, but they weren't the sole focus. The numbers were there to guide us in understanding the extent of the work that needed to be accomplished and to offer us a shared vision for discussion. The ultimate goal was to lead as many people as possible to Christ through the act of baptism.

When we reached the combined zone conference on December 16th of that same year, we had indeed doubled our baptisms for the entire zone. We were all filled with happiness. We had started the year as the lowest-baptizing zone in the mission and ended it as the best. The other missionaries in my zone made me realize what a significant accomplishment it was, and they were very proud of me as their leader, but I knew that it was the work of the Lord.

I learned that year how efficient we may become in the Lord's work listening to the living prophet and following the promptings of the Holy Ghost.

## 1 Nephi 4:3

> Now behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an angel hath spoken unto you; wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the Lord is able to deliver us, even as our fathers...

Here is a message to my children and anyone who may read these words: believe me when I say that the Lord has the power to assist you in your challenges, just as He did for me and countless others. He responded to my prayers and provided inspiration on numerous occasions, helping me understand the truth of the Book of Mormon, guiding me through tough situations, and even rescuing me from circumstances I could not handle on my own.

As you may already know if you're familiar with me (or if you've read the beginning of this book), I experienced a severe car accident at the age of seven that left me partially paralyzed. Consequently, it has been exceedingly challenging for me to navigate my life while striving for success in my endeavors. Because I was a car accident victime, I thought I could receive some help from the insurance state company, but when I required support to continue my education after college since I couldn't work and study full time without exhausting myself, my insurance agent explained that he couldn't take any action because I had demonstrated my ability to function normally by returning to school as a child. He informed me that the only way to receive assistance was to establish medically that my condition had significantly worsened.

By the end of 1992, my physiatrist conducted a medical assessment to justify the deterioration of my condition over time. I hired a lawyer whom I couldn't afford much, and who couldn't achieve much either in terms of assistance. In the spring of 1993, I received $600 from the insurance company, which I used to travel to the West Coast with some friends. Eventually, I became homeless and ended up in the USA.

Upon my return to Canada, my father took me to a specialist who had the bright idea to perform an X-ray. The results confirmed that I had been walking for an unknown period with a dislocated hip, explaining the systematic pain I endured. In August 1994, I underwent surgery to secure my hip in place, just above the pelvic socket. At the time, medical authorities were unable to explain how my hip had become dislocated, as it had gone unnoticed during my accident. Some suggested it might be a personal condition, a congenital issue from birth. However, after the operation, my orthopedist informed me that it was evident it was a post-trauma condition. I later asked him to document this in a report.

Thinking that I finally had the evidence needed to substantiate a relapse, I approached my insurance agent for assistance. Instead, I received a letter stating that the specialists had concluded that my issues were attributed to a personal condition. This was not true, of course, but since they had made their decision, I was left to prove otherwise.

In 1995, I sought the counsel of another attorney who referred me to a medical expert. They requested that I gather all the available medical records from the hospital archives where I had been treated following the accident. Our goal was to find evidence that my hip had become dislocated during the accident and not prior to it. However, we couldn't locate any mention of the hip in the records. There was only one X-ray of my pelvis, but it was difficult to discern my skeletal structure due to the substantial amount of blood in my body after my spleen had ruptured. We were left with no clues about the condition of my hip.

Due to my financial constraints and being on welfare, both my attorney and the specialist halted their efforts after determining that they had done all they could with the $1,000 allocated by the government for my case. Feeling discouraged and having exhausted all available options, I made the decision to abandon the pursuit of legal action against the government for their unfair decision. I resolved to continue following the same approach I had always adopted in my life, striving to do my best and seeking success through my own talents and efforts.

When I chose to enter into the waters of baptism, I placed my wavering faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, recognizing my own limitations in managing life, I leaned on the belief that Christ had the power to reshape my character and guide me toward personal improvement. My past sins weighed heavily on me, yet, in accordance with the promise, the Holy Spirit that enveloped me after my baptism brought a profound inner peace. Moreover, I received blessings of understanding and heightened spiritual awareness. My capacity for love and empathy expanded, and I maintained trust that, with God's assistance, I could attain success in life despite the challenges posed by my physical condition.

## 1 Nephi 4:4

> Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth, and did still continue to murmur; nevertheless they did follow me up until we came without the walls of Jerusalem.

No one can compel another to change. People must choose to change for themselves; however, we can certainly exert influence and inspire others to change. This is the transformative work that Christ does within us. The Holy Spirit inspires followers of Christ to choose the right path. Individuals are then either transformed by the Spirit as they follow Christ, or not, if they choose not to do so. The Holy Spirit can indeed bring about transformation, but not without our willingness.

My missionary service was undeniably one of these transformative journeys that the Lord inspired me to embark upon. Through this experience, the Lord revealed to me that I had the capacity to become a better man, and I recognized that it was through His inspiration and grace that I had grown more like Him. It stands as one of the best decisions of my life. However, my family didn't initially view it the same way. I was going to leave work and family, and it scared them. I had to explain to my mother, father, and grandmother even, that I believed God had helped me secure a good job. Two years after my baptism, I was employed at the Bank of Montreal, initially as a phone agent and later as a clerk, handling transactions for customers and contributing to the enhancement of operational processes and services.

By 1998, I had completed two full years at the bank and had saved enough money to embark on a two-year mission. My close relationships and siblings were deeply concerned that I might lose a solid position and never have another opportunity like it. I hadn't finished my bachelor's degree, and my physical condition made it challenging for me to secure a good job or study full time. They attempted to dissuade me from going.

I assured my mother that since God had guided me to where I was at that point in my life, I was confident He would continue to guide me after my mission, especially after dedicating two years in His service. And indeed, He did, repeatedly, even until now, twenty-five years later. Now my close ones see that the hand of the Lord has blessed me throughout my life.

## 1 Nephi 4:5-6

> And it was by night... I, Nephi, crept into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.
>
> And I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which I should do.

I learned to rely on the Lord, much like Nephi did. Nephi's unwavering trust in divine guidance allowed him to be ready for any task the Lord asked of him. After my mission, I found myself at a crossroads, uncertain about my life's direction. Yet, I held firm to the belief that God would guide me, just as He had done so far throughout my journey—from baptism to the end of my mission.

Flying back home, I encountered a man in the airplane—a fellow traveler with a physical disability. He was sitting in a wheelchair next to me doing math calculations in a notebook. He caught my attention, not only due to our shared condition but also because of my interest in mathematics. Curious about his profession, I struck up a conversation. He revealed that he was an engineer. During my mission, I had met a software engineer who worked remotely, and it dawned on me that perhaps I could follow a similar path, since I was excellent in computer programming when I was a kid.

So back to Montreal, my roommate one day talked to me about a college program in computer programming he succeeded earlier and encouraged me to apply for admission. Which I did, passed the tests and got immediately admitted. I also went back at the Bank of Montreal and could get a job. About three weeks after getting back from my mission, I was working part time and studying part time. The Spirit encouraging me to pursue my studies. My plan was to do this for a time while I was figuring out which university program to go to eventually.

It went very well for a few months, but one day, listening to the church's general conference,

<!--
parler du sentiment d'être dans le noir, plein d'inquiétudes par rapport aux études ou à l'avenir en général.

parler des mathématiques industrielles et comment l'Esprit m'a guidé.  malgré moi.  l'Esprit qui m'a dit que j'enseignerais si j'étudie en mathématiques pures.

parler de mon ami Jean-Lou qui avait fait ses études en programmation au collège CDI.

I went back to ask my prior boss if she could take me back to work to at the Bank of Montreal.

inscription et abandon en programmation niveau collégial

talk of the engineer in the plane doing maths. my pursue of study. and eventually becoming a industrial mathematician.  or business analyst.  like Michel.-->


<!--
samedi, le 4 février 1995

La nuit dernière, j’ai rêvé que mon père m’ordonnait
de suivre une formation en mathématique industrielle, et
j’ignore ce que c’est, de la comptabilité ? Dans mon rêve,
je voyais l’importance et la tâche de cette science : de
relever et de maintenir des hommes et des femmes liés de
près ou de loin à une ou des industries. Je comprenais que
notre Père céleste avait l’intention de se servir de cette
discipline pour soumettre la discipline à ses enfants (je
parle de la discipline selon la loi céleste). Je comprenais
que ce n’était qu’un instrument pour que Dieu puisse agir
en ses enfants.

Je me demande si je dois me diriger dans cette direction. Père, aide-moi, je t’en prie !

ensuite mathématiques financières
professeur de mathématiques


dimanche, le 2 février 2020

hier ou avant hier, en retranscrivant mon journal de 1995, j'ai lu que j'avais fait un rêve à l'époque dans lequel mon père me disait d'étudier en mathématiques industrielles.  je ne savais pas vraiment quelle direction prendre à ce moment.  mathématiques industrielles n'est pas une discipline libellée comme tel à l'université.  j'ai médité sur ce sujet depuis hier et j'ai rendu mon témoignage à la Sainte-Cène aujourd'hui surtout pour les jeunes, pour ne pas qu'ils désespèrent.

je n'avais pas une très grande estime de moi en 1995.  j'avais alors 22 ou 23 ans.  je venais de subir une chirurgie à la hanche et je marchais avec des béquilles.  je vivais sur l'aide sociale et je n'arrivais pas à trouver un emploi adapté à mes capacités  très limitées.  je ne savais pas trop ce que je pourrais faire pour gagner ma vie à cause des difficultés liées à mon handicap.  j'avais essuyé plusieurs échecs.  les perspectives ne me semblaient pas très encourageantes.  j'étais doué en mathématiques à l'école : c'était ma matière forte au secondaire et au cégep.  j'ai donc cherché les différents programmes universitaires en mathématique, avec en tête le rêve que j'avais fait.  on n'avait pas l'internet comme aujourd'hui et ce n'était pas facile comme aujourd'hui pour obtenir l'information.  

je suis allé chercher au bureau d'orientation les guides de programmes de différentes universités et j'ai cherché ce qu'on offrait en mathématiques industrielles, mais je n'ai rien trouvé de vraiment pertinent.  j'ai cru comprendre qu'à l'Université de Sherbrooke, le programme était axé vers l'industrie, mais sans savoir vraiment, c'était difficile de me faire une idée claire de ce que je devais étudier.

je suis parti en mission 3 ans plus tard en 1998.  j'avais réussi à trouver un emploi à la Banque de Montréal pour payer toutes mes dettes d'études et ramasser 10~000~\$ pour la mission.  le chemin pour me rendre jusque-là n'a pas été une petite affaire, je ne ferai donc pas maintenant le récit de cette première réussite.  j'ai donc quitté mon emploi pour la mission, au grand désespoir de ma mère et de mon père, qui s'inquiétaient franchement pour mon avenir.  

en mission, j'avais rencontré un évêque qui travaillait de la maison au nord de l'Idaho.  il était ingénieur informatique.  j'étais bon en informatique et je me disais que ce serait peut-être une avenue pour moi.

dans le vol de retour de ma mission vers Montréal (mai 2000), j'étais assis à côté d'un homme en chaise roulante qui faisait des mathématiques.  intéressé, je lui ai demandé quel était son métier et il m'a répondu qu'il était ingénieur.  c'était pour moi très encourageant, comme un signe que je pourrais faire ce genre de travail.

de retour à Montréal, je suis retourné travailler rapidement à la Banque de Montréal et j'ai commencé des études collégiales en informatique au Collège CDI à la fin de l'année 2000.  mon objectif étant éventuellement de me rendre à l'université; mais quand j'ai réalisé que je perdais mon temps au collège, j'ai abandonné le programme. j'étais le meilleur de la cohorte, et je me disais que j'allais plutôt m'inscrire à l'université.  j'ai appelé la Polytechnique de Montréal pour leur demander si je pouvais m'inscrire à leur programme de génie informatique, mais on m'a affirmé que je devais avoir fait mes études collégiales en sciences pures.  j'avais fait seulement des mathématiques fortes au cégep.  on m'a fait comprendre que je n'avais pas ce qu'il fallait.

déçu, mais pas découragé, j'ai donc abandonné l'idée d'étudier en informatique et je me suis inscrit à Rimouski au baccalauréat en enseignement pour la rentré de l'automne 2001.  j'avais prié fervemment en mission pour devenir instructeur de séminaire un jour et j'avais vraiment senti que Père céleste m'entendait.  en lisant les informations du Church Educational System (à ce moment là, j'avais accès à l'internet), j'ai appris que pour devenir instructeur de séminaire, il fallait un baccalauréat dans une discipline quelconque pour pouvoir suivre la formation des instructeurs.  je me suis dit que puisque j'avais vraiment un talent pour enseigner dans l'Église, je pouvais espérer devenir un bon enseignant.  j'ai choisi un programme d'enseignement pour les enfants en difficulté.  mon objectif était d'aider les enfants handicapés à réussir leurs études.

j'ai aimé mes études en enseignement à l'Université du Québec à Rimouski.  j'ai aimé ma cohorte aussi. on faisait de belles activités ensemble, mais je voyais souvent dans la cafétéria un groupe d'étudiants qui travaillaient ensemble leurs mathématiques.  c'était un groupe très hétéroclite et ils avaient l'air de bien s'entendre.  ils faisaient partie du baccalauréat en informatique.

à la fin de mon premier stage en enseignement dans une école primaire à Matane, lors de ma 2e session, au printemps 2002, ma superviseure de stage m'a fortement découragé de prendre la direction de l'enseignement, à cause de mon handicap et de mes difficultés à me déplacer.  elle m'a fait comprendre que je n'étais pas à ma place dans une école et j'ai surtout compris que ce serait difficile pour moi de travailler tous les jours dans une école, et surtout de me faire accepter des autres enseignants, et encore plus des parents.  ça m'a donné un coup.  je me souviens, j'étais dans l'autobus entre Matane et Rimouski, j'ai pensé au baccalauréat en informatique et j'ai demandé à Dieu (en prière dans mon cœur) si c'était pour moi une bonne idée d'étudier en informatique; l'Esprit est alors venu tout de suite me confirmer que c'était la bonne direction à prendre : j'ai senti dans ma poitrine une chaleur intense au cœur qui me confirmait que c'était le bon choix pour moi.  je connaissais très bien ce sentiment, cette émotion divine qui m'a guidé à plusieurs reprises pour accepter l'Évangile, joindre l'Église de Jésus-Christ des Saints des Derniers Jours et choisir le chemin du disciple.

de retour à Rimouski, je me suis renseigné sur le programme en informatique et les pré-requis pour m'y inscrire.  il me manquait seulement un cours de mathématique.  je suis allé rencontrer le directeur du programme pour lui demander s'il accepterait de me créditer le premier cours de programmation, en vertu des cours que j'avais très bien réussis au Collège CDI.  il m'a dit de m'inscrire au cours de programmation 2, qu'il donnait lui-même pendant l'été, en me disant que si je réussissais le 2e cours, il n'avait aucun problème à me créditer le 1er.  le directeur qui était-là à l'époque se nommait : André Jacques.  il est devenu un véritable ami par la suite.  

j'ai annoncé à mon directeur de programme en enseignement que j'abandonnais son programme et que je me dirigeais vers l'informatique.  il était dévasté car j'étais un bon élève.  il a tenté de me dissuader et de ne pas écouter cette enseignante qui avait supervisé mon stage, mais l'Esprit avait été très clair avec moi et ma décision était prise.

j'ai obtenu les meilleurs résultats de la classe de programmation cet été-là et j'ai commencé mes études au baccalauréat en informatique à l'automne 2002, avec 2 cours de programmation d'avance.  sous les recommandations de mon nouveau directeur, j'ai pris un cours intensif de rattrapage en mathématiques, parce que mes cours avait été pris plusieurs années auparavant.  

j'ai terminé mon baccalauréat en 2005.  mon directeur m'a déménagé à Montréal à la fin du printemps pour faire mes études de maîtrise en informatique à l'automne, à l'UQÀM. mais je me suis fait opéré la hanche en novembre et j'ai dû abandonner mes études pour me consacrer à ma réadaptation toute l'année 2006.  je suis retourné aux études à l'hiver 2007, en quadriporteur.  

durant mes études de maîtrise, j'ai pris des cours de génie logiciel qui m'ont été très utiles par la suite dans ma carrière.  ces cours, en plus de l'expertise que j'ai développée pendant mes recherches, m'ont permis de toujours avoir un pied d'avance par rapport à mes collègues.  

une chose en amenant une autre, j'ai su développer, grâce à Dieu, une expertise remarquée par mes paires et par l'industrie en analyse et en architecture d'affaires.  je travaille maintenant sur des projets et des modèles pour comprendre et améliorer l'organisation au complet, pas seulement les projets informatiques.  

je discutais l'autre jour avec Michel qui habite dans l'immeuble.  on l'avait invité avec sa conjointe, à venir regarder la vidéo sur la nativité que l'Église diffuse.  pendant la discussion, on a parlé de ce que je faisais comme travail.  et on s'est rendus compte qu'on faisait le même métier.  lui par contre, il a pris sa retraite.  c'est alors que je lui ai demandé, par curiosité, quelle formation avait-il suivie pour débuter sa carrière dans ce domaine, parce que c'est un métier assez récent.  il m'a dit qu'il avait fait ses études en génie industriel.  j'ai tout de suite fait le lien avec l'inspiration d'étudier les mathématiques industrielles que j'ai reçue en rêve dans les années '90, et ça m'a rassuré par rapport au chemin professionnel que j'ai finalement choisi de prendre.

de plus, dans ma bénédiction patriarcale, le Seigneur m'a révélé en 1995 que je serais « un organisateur ».  ça m'avait étonné vraiment beaucoup à l'époque parce que j'avais l'impression d'être tellement désorganisé.  j'ai toujours gardé à l'esprit cette prophétie et j'ai cherché à m'améliorer continuellement à l'Église, à la Banque, en mission, lors de mes études, au travail, etc.

le patriarche m'a béni pour que je réussisse :

	Sois fidèle et tu résisteras aux tentations, tu seras pour tes frères et sœurs un guide, un organisateur. Combien seront étonnés de ton savoir.

cette prophétie est sur le point de s'accomplir complètement.  je travaille maintenant pour aider Investissement Québec à clarifier ses opérations, son modèle d'affaires, ses règles, ses politiques et ses opérations.  on a formé une équipe d'architecture et d'analyse d'affaires en janvier.  je vais aider à les former.  mon objectif est de continuer de m'instruire dans les meilleurs livres et les meilleures pratiques.  

le Seigneur m'a guidé toutes ces années.  il m'a pris par la main et il m'a ramené à plusieurs reprises sur le chemin qu'il a prévu pour moi, dès la fondation du monde.  je suis en train de réaliser son dessein.  c'est encourageant pour moi de voir que je suis toujours sur son chemin et aussi de voir que malgré mes désirs et mes égarements, ou mes faiblesses, mes empêchements et les aléas de la vie, les persécutions, la maladie, le handicap : il a le pouvoir, l'intelligence et la puissance pour me garder sur le chemin de la réussite et du salut.

j'ai donc dit aux jeunes ce matin dans mon témoignage de ne jamais désespérer et de faire confiance au Seigneur.  il nous prends par la main et nous mène là où il veut que nous soyons.  je les ai exhorté à rester fidèles et à faire confiance à Dieu parce qu'il a l'intention de faire tout pour nous afin de réussir notre vie.  

ce n'est pas facile de comprendre et de voir clairement la direction à prendre dans sa vie.  la bonne information ne nous vient pas toujours au moment où nous en avons besoin; le découragement nous paralyse parfois; l'adversité nous empêche même de faire la volonté de Dieu, ou le doute; mais Dieu a ses mains tendus pour nous ramener et nous aider à réussir.

j'ai donc pleinement confiance en étudiant ma vie que Père céleste saura certainement me guider jusque dans la vie éternelle : même chose pour les jeunes.

-->



## 1 Nephi 4:7-8

> Nevertheless I went forth...
>
> ... and as I came near unto the house of Laban I beheld a man, and he had fallen to the earth before me, for he was drunken with wine.
>
> And when I came to him I found that it was Laban.

Now this is the right attitude to have when things seem hard to accomplish. Have faith in the Lord.

how often in my life the Lord have put the right circumstances on my path to solve big problems, insurmountable.

talk of the situation with the insurance... with the finding of my wife, and the two baskets maybe...

## 1 Nephi 4:9-10

> And I beheld his sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath thereof; and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine, and I saw that the blade thereof was of the most precious steel.
>
> And it came to pass that I was constrained by the Spirit that I should kill Laban; but I said in my heart: Never at any time have I shed the blood of man. And I shrunk and would that I might not slay him.

now talk of the directive I received to go back to work.

## 1 Nephi 4:11-12

> And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands...
>
> And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me again: Slay him, for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands;

talk of the impression I received during my master to take the course on software engineering - that it would be good for a future business - it resulted that this class was the best foot forward I had as a business analyst.

## 1 Nephi 4:13-17

> Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to bring forth his righteous purposes. It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief.
>
> And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remembered the words of the Lord which he spake unto me in the wilderness, saying that: Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall prosper in the land of promise.
>
> Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they should have the law.
>
> And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of brass.
>
> And again, I knew that the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands for this cause—that I might obtain the records according to his commandments.

## 1 Nephi 4:18

> Therefore I did obey the voice of the Spirit, and took Laban by the hair of the head, and I smote off his head with his own sword.

## 1 Nephi 4:19

> And after I had smitten off his head with his own sword, I took the garments of Laban and put them upon mine own body; yea, even every whit; and I did gird on his armor about my loins.

## 1 Nephi 4:20

> And after I had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of Laban. And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold, I saw the servant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury. And I commanded him in the voice of Laban, that he should go with me into the treasury.

## 1 Nephi 4:21

> And he supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the garments and also the sword girded about my loins.

## 1 Nephi 4:22

> And he spake unto me concerning the elders of the Jews, he knowing that his master, Laban, had been out by night among them.

## 1 Nephi 4:23

> And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban.

## 1 Nephi 4:24

> And I also spake unto him that I should carry the engravings, which were upon the plates of brass, to my elder brethren, who were without the walls.

## 1 Nephi 4:25

> And I also bade him that he should follow me.

## 1 Nephi 4:26

> And he, supposing that I spake of the brethren of the church, and that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow me.

the brethren of the church

## 1 Nephi 4:27

> And he spake unto me many times concerning the elders of the Jews, as I went forth unto my brethren, who were without the walls.

## 1 Nephi 4:28

> And it came to pass that when Laman saw me he was exceedingly frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And they fled from before my presence; for they supposed it was Laban, and that he had slain me and had sought to take away their lives also.

## 1 Nephi 4:29

> And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did hear me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.

## 1 Nephi 4:30

> And it came to pass that when the servant of Laban beheld my brethren he began to tremble, and was about to flee from before me and return to the city of Jerusalem.

## 1 Nephi 4:31

> And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also having received much strength of the Lord, therefore I did seize upon the servant of Laban, and held him, that he should not flee.

## 1 Nephi 4:32

> And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I live, even so that if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare his life.

## 1 Nephi 4:33

> And I spake unto him, even with an oath, that he need not fear; that he should be a free man like unto us if he would go down in the wilderness with us.

## 1 Nephi 4:34

> And I also spake unto him, saying: Surely the Lord hath commanded us to do this thing; and shall we not be diligent in keeping the commandments of the Lord? Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with us.

## 1 Nephi 4:35

> And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words which I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he promised that he would go down into the wilderness unto our father. Yea, and he also made an oath unto us that he would tarry with us from that time forth.

## 1 Nephi 4:36

> Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this cause, that the Jews might not know concerning our flight into the wilderness, lest they should pursue us and destroy us.

## 1 Nephi 4:37

> And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an oath unto us, our fears did cease concerning him.

## 1 Nephi 4:38

> And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass and the servant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and journeyed unto the tent of our father.
